DECEMBER 2024
48
F&D
The Economics of Housing
Comprehensive, country-specific understanding of housing 
and mortgage markets can help calibrate monetary policy
HOUSING MARKETS  
AND MONETARY POLICY
Mehdi Benatiya Andaloussi, Nina Biljanovska, and Alessia De Stefani 
C
entral banks in late 2021 kicked off the 
steepest and most coordinated series of 
interest rate hikes in four decades to con-
tain the postpandemic inflation outbreak 
(see Chart 1). Many economists expected 
a sharp global slowdown, but many economies 
have instead held up relatively well, with only some 
seeing significant decelerations. 
Why did some countries feel the pinch from 
higher rates and not others? Explaining this is espe-
cially timely as many central banks are now cutting 
rates. Housing and mortgage characteristics, which 
vary widely across countries and have changed in 
recent years, are one key reason, our research in 
a chapter of the IMF’s April 2024 World Economic 
Outlook suggests. 
Housing has been an important driver of eco-
nomic shocks, largely due to its central role in private 
sector balance sheets. Mortgages are often the largest 
liability for households and housing their most sig-
nificant form of wealth. Real estate also accounts for 
a large share of consumption, investment, employ-
ment, and consumer prices in most economies. 
Banks and financial intermediaries are also often 
heavily exposed to the housing sector, making it a 
key component of monetary policy transmission.
Housing channel 
Since the global financial crisis, economists have 
made significant progress explaining how mone-
tary policy operates through housing markets, spe-
cifically in identifying the transmission channels 
that operate through housing and mortgage mar-
kets. We summarize a few of these channels below, 
by focusing on those related to household demand. 
First, policy rate changes directly affect monthly 
mortgage payments for homeowners with adjust-
able-rate mortgages. Payments also rise when policy 
rates do, depressing disposable income and some-
times consumption, through what is commonly 
referred to as the “cash flow channel,” according to 
research by Marco Di Maggio and others.


DECEMBER 2024
49
F&D
The Economics of Housing
mortgages—which, by definition, do not adjust 
to changes in policy rates—out of all outstanding 
mortgages. More fixed-rate loans mean fewer bor-
rowers feel the pinch of rising policy rates, or ben-
efit from their decline. 
Our research shows that some key characteris-
tics vary widely across countries. For example, the 
share of fixed-rate mortgages outstanding can vary 
from close to zero in South Africa to more than 95 
percent in Mexico and the United States (Chart 2). 
Could such differences explain why the degree 
of monetary policy transmission differs across 
countries? We find that policy has greater effects 
on economic activity in countries where the share 
of fixed-rate mortgages is low. In countries with 
a large share of fixed-rate mortgages, changes in 
policy rates will affect monthly payments for fewer 
households, and aggregate consumption will tend 
to be less affected.
Similarly, we see stronger monetary policy 
effects in countries where more households have 
Second, home prices are very sensitive to 
changes in interest rates, through evolving discount 
rates and via expectations about future returns. 
This expectations channel, also referred to as the 
risk premium channel, can impact how much buy-
ers are willing to borrow and for how long, which 
in turn affects housing prices and credit conditions.
Third, when property prices fluctuate in 
response to changing policy rates, wealth effects 
can affect consumption by homeowners. In addi-
tion, owners in many countries can use their homes 
as collateral to borrow and finance consumption. 
When real estate prices fluctuate, so does the vol-
ume of collateralized credit, and consumption fol-
lows, as work by Atif Mian and Amir Sufi shows.
 
Transmission potency 
These transmission channels depend on key hous-
ing and mortgage market characteristics. For 
example, the relative strength of the cash-flow 
channel is determined by the share of fixed-rate 
Illustration by Ben Wiseman


DECEMBER 2024
50
F&D
The Economics of Housing
debt and higher amounts of borrowing, as many 
more households will be exposed to changes in 
mortgage rates.
Housing market characteristics also matter: 
monetary policy transmission is stronger when 
housing supply is more restricted. For example, 
lower rates imply lower borrowing costs for buy-
ers and increase demand. Slimmer supplies boost 
prices. Existing owners become wealthier and con-
sume more, including by borrowing against homes. 
The same holds true where home prices have 
been overvalued. Sharp price increases are often 
driven by overly optimistic views about apprecia-
tion. These are typically accompanied by excessive 
borrowing that, when interest rates rise, can lead 
to foreclosures and falling prices, and in turn lower 
incomes and less consumption.
Weaker transmission 
Moreover, housing and mortgage markets have 
changed since the global financial crisis and the 
pandemic. At the beginning of the postpandemic 
hiking cycle, effective mortgage rates in many coun-
tries had fallen to multidecade lows, as households 
took advantage of low interest rates to secure low-
cost loans in the 2010s and early 2020s. In addi-
tion, the average maturity of mortgages increased 
during that time, as the share of fixed-rate mort-
gages increased in many countries. 
Meanwhile, many financial supervisors tight-
ened macroprudential policies for housing financ-
ing after the global financial crisis. These policies 
aimed at limiting the risky lending that fueled 
boom-bust cycles in many countries during the 
mid-2000s. This paid off by 2020, with improved 
creditworthiness and reduced leverage. Separately, 
the pandemic prompted people to shift away from 
city centers and to areas with more supply. 
Our research indicates that these shifts helped 
weaken or at least delay some monetary policy 
transmission channels in several countries. Trans-
mission strengthened in some economies, such as 
those with fewer fixed-rate mortgages, higher debt 
levels, and constrained housing supply. But it weak-
ened in others, where those factors moved in the 
opposite direction. 
Our findings suggest that a deep, country-spe-
cific understanding of housing and mortgage mar-
kets is important to help calibrate monetary policy. 
In countries where transmission through housing 
channels is strong, monitoring housing market 
developments and changes in household debt-ser-
vicing ratios can help identify early signs of over-
tightening. Where monetary policy transmission 
is weaker, more forceful early action can be taken 
when signs of inflationary or deflationary pressures 
first emerge.
Loosening cycles 
With many central banks now easing as inflation 
recedes, it’s natural to ask how housing and mort-
gage market characteristics will affect transmis-
sion in a loosening cycle. The housing channels we 
describe are active in both tightening and loosen-
ing phases, hence transmission depends on coun-
try-specific housing and mortgage market charac-
teristics when policy moves in the other direction 
as well. Similarly to what happened during the post-
pandemic tightening cycle, we can expect a global 
easing cycle to affect each economy differently—
and with important asymmetries.
History shows that tightening episodes are gen-
erally more powerful in restraining booms than 
similar size loosening episodes are in stimulating 
demand, according to research by Silvana Tenreyro 
and Gregory Thwaites. Yet most recent large and 
coordinated loosening cycles were followed by 
global recessions. During these periods, weakened 
private sector balance sheets prolonged economic 
slumps despite monetary easing, according to Atif 
Mian, Kamalesh Rao, and Amir Sufi. 
The current easing cycle comes as household 
finances in advanced economies are stronger than 
during the years after the global financial crisis, and 
CHART 1
SOURCES:Haver Analytics; and IMF staﬀ calculations.
Sharp rate increases
Synchronized and steep postpandemic monetary tightening 
followed an extended period of low interest rates.   
(nominal policy rates, country group median, percent)
0
2
4
6
8
10
2005
2008
2011
2014
2017
2020
2023
Advanced economies
Emerging market and developing economies


DECEMBER 2024
51
F&D
The Economics of Housing
sometimes even relative to the prepandemic period. 
Similarly, there hasn’t been a significant increase 
in household default rates. The preexisting con-
ditions of this loosening cycle differ substantially 
from historical experience, so its effects may also 
be different from usual.
Another key difference is the historically high 
share of fixed-rate mortgages as a proportion of out-
standing debt. Typically, a high share of fixed-rate 
mortgages dampens the transmission of monetary 
policy during a tightening cycle, as homeowners 
with such loans are insulated from rising rates. In a 
loosening cycle, fixed-rate mortgages impair trans-
mission less, as households with such loans may 
want to refinance at even lower rates, activating 
what is known as the refinancing channel of mon-
etary policy, Martin Eichenbaum, Sergio Rebelo, 
and Arlene Wong show.
This time could be different, however. Many 
borrowers in advanced economies locked in histor-
ically low fixed rates during the 2010s and the pan-
demic. These mortgages may remain well below 
current rates despite monetary easing, leaving 
many households with little incentive to refinance. 
In the United States, for example, the average 
rate for all outstanding mortgages was 3.9 per-
cent as of late 2024, government data show, well 
below the 6.7 percent average for new 30-year fixed 
loans. This means that mortgage rates would have 
to decline about 3 percentage points for the average 
borrower with a fixed-rate loan to have an incen-
tive to refinance. Homeowners with fixed rates are 
therefore likely to remain locked in despite lower 
borrowing costs, with important consequences on 
both spending and house prices. 
Of course, monetary policy operates through 
many channels other than housing markets. Ulti-
mately, the degree of transmission of any easing 
cycle to the real economy depends on many fac-
tors: the relative speed and strength of the loosen-
ing impulse; the pass-through of monetary policy to 
lending rates; the government’s fiscal stance; and 
supply-side factors, such as the cost of materials, 
many of which are beyond the direct influence of 
central banks.
Yet our results highlight that housing and mort-
gage markets are a key component of the transmis-
sion mechanism. Central banks should therefore 
closely monitor housing markets to best calibrate 
policy.  F&D 
mehdi benatiya andaloussi and 
alessia de stefani are economists 
in the IMF’s Research Department. nina 
biljanovska is a senior economist in the 
European Department.
references
Di Maggio, Marco, Amir Kermani, Benjamin J. Keys, 
Tomasz Piskorski, Rodney Ramcharan, Amit Seru, and 
Vincent Yao. 2017. “Interest Rate Pass-Through: Mort-
gage Rates, Household Consumption, and Voluntary 
Deleveraging.” American Economic Review 107 (11): 
3550–88. 
Eichenbaum, Martin, Sergio Rebelo, and Arlene Wong. 
2022. “State-Dependent Effects of Monetary Policy: The 
Refinancing Channel.” American Economic Review 112 (3): 
721–61. 
Mian, Atif, and Amir Sufi. 2011. “House Prices, Home 
Equity-Based Borrowing, and the US Household Lever-
age Crisis.” American Economic Review 101 (5): 2132–56.
Mian, Atif, Kamalesh Rao, and Amir Sufi. 2013. “House-
hold Balance Sheets, Consumption, and the Economic 
Slump.” Quarterly Journal of Economics 128 (4): 1687–726. 
Tenreyro, Silvana, and Gregory Thwaites. 2016. “Push-
ing on a String: US Monetary Policy Is Less Powerful in 
Recessions.” American Economic Journal: Macroeconomics 
8 (4): 43–74.
CHART 2
SOURCES:European Central Bank; national authorities’ data; and IMF staﬀ calculations.
NOTE: Mortgages are deemed ﬁxed-rate if nominal payments do not reset within a year. Fixed-rate 
mortgages exclude mortgages that adjust for inﬂation (as in Chile).
Vast diﬀerences
Fixed-rate mortgages have become more prevalent globally, 
though their share of loans varies widely across countries.   
(country-level share of ﬁxed-rate mortgages, percent, 2022:Q4)
0
20
40
60
80
100
Chile
South Africa
Australia
Portugal
Israel
Japan
Korea
Spain
Denmark
New Zealand
Sweden
Austria
Ireland
Italy
Canada
Colombia
United Kingdom
Germany
Belgium
France
United States
Mexico
World 2011
World 2022


