Review of Economic Studies (2010) 77, 914–936
0034-6527/10/00411011$02.00
© 2010 The Review of Economic Studies Limited
doi: 10.1111/j.1467-937X.2009.00596.x
Equilibrium Asset Prices
and Investor Behaviour
in the Presence of Money
Illusion
SULEYMAN BASAK
London Business School and CEPR
and
HONGJUN YAN
Yale School of Management
First version received October 2007; ﬁnal version accepted July 2009 (Eds.)
This article analyses the implications of money illusion for investor behaviour and asset prices
in a securities market economy with inﬂationary ﬂuctuations. We provide a belief-based formulation of
money illusion which accounts for the systematic mistakes in evaluating real and nominal quantities.
The impact of money illusion on security prices and their dynamics is demonstrated to be considerable
even though its welfare cost on investors is small in typical environments. A money-illusioned investor’s
real consumption is shown to generally depend on the price level, and speciﬁcally to decrease in the
price level. A general-equilibrium analysis in the presence of money illusion generates implications that
are consistent with several empirical regularities. In particular, the real bond yields and dividend price
ratios are positively related to expected inﬂation, the real short rate is negatively correlated with realized
inﬂation, and money illusion may induce predictability and excess volatility in stock returns. The basic
analysis is generalized to incorporate heterogeneous investors with differing degrees of illusion.
1. INTRODUCTION
Money illusion refers to “a tendency to think in terms of nominal rather than real monetary
values” (Shaﬁr, Diamond and Tversky, 1997). Recognition of this seemingly simple confusion
dates back to Fisher (1928) who argued that “Almost every one is subject to the ‘Money
Illusion’ in respect to his own country’s currency”. Though the difference between nominal
and real quantities is obvious, money illusion remains pervasive. As Akerlof (2002) notes, seven
decades after Fisher, “. . . rules of thumb involving ‘money illusion’ are not only commonplace
but also sensible—neither foolhardy nor implausible”. Despite its prevalence, money illusion
has largely been ignored by economists after the rational expectations revolution in 1970s.1 Yet,
there has recently been growing, convincing support for money illusion. Shaﬁr, Diamond and
1. Early literature on money illusion emphasized its impact on labour supply and unemployment (Keynes,
1936).
914


BASAK & YAN
EQUILIBRIUM ASSET PRICES AND INVESTOR BEHAVIOUR 915
Tversky (1997) provide a psychological foundation for money illusion based on their analysis
of survey data. These authors argue that although people are generally aware of the difference
between real and nominal values, they still often think of transactions predominantly in nominal
terms since, relative to real quantities, the nominal quantities are much more salient. Fehr and
Tyran (2001) demonstrate the role of money illusion in nominal price rigidity by conducting
a series of rigorous experiments. Interestingly, they also show that money illusion arises only
when payoffs are presented in nominal terms to the participants, that is, when nominal terms
are more salient. The bias towards more accessible information arises naturally, as argued in
cognitive psychology (Kahneman, 2003). Moreover, as reasoned by Akerlof (2002), this bias
can also be justiﬁed in many situations when losses from the bias are small.
In this paper, we analyse money illusion in ﬁnancial markets and do indeed demonstrate
that the welfare loss of money illusion to an investor is small for typical environments, while
its impact on equilibrium can be considerable. Money illusion can then be interpreted as
a form of bounded rationality (Simon, 1978) in ﬁnancial markets: investors may partially
overlook inﬂation in their decision making since the cost of this negligence is small. This
result parallels the main idea in the New Keynesian macroeconomics literature, which argues
that small frictions and departures from full rationality may generate large ﬂuctuations in the
real economy (Akerlof and Yellen 1985; Mankiw, 1985). In addition, our analysis also shows
that some of the consumption and asset prices behaviour can be better understood in the context
of money illusion.
The presence of money illusion in ﬁnancial markets has long been noted. Modigliani and
Cohn (1979) hypothesize that money-illusioned investors essentially discount future real payoffs
at nominal rather than real rates, causing the undervaluation of stocks in 1970s when inﬂation
was excessively high. In the psychology literature, Svedsater, Gamble and Garling (2007)
highlight the role of money illusion in ﬁnancial decision making via a number of experiments,
and show that investors may be inﬂuenced by the nominal representation of stock prices when
evaluating ﬁnancial information. The existing analysis in the ﬁnance literature is primarily
limited to empirically understanding dividend–price ratios based on this partial-equilibrium
stock valuation framework (Modigliani and Cohn, 1979; Ritter and Warr, 2002; Campbell
and Vuolteenaho, 2004). At present, we lack rigorous understanding of the ﬁnancial economic
implications of money illusion.
Our goal is to ﬁll this gap and undertake an analysis of money illusion within a familiar
asset pricing framework. Our strategy is to deviate only in one dimension, the incorporation of
money illusion, while retaining all other standard paradigms in ﬁnance (no-arbitrage, market
clearing). In particular, we study the implications of money illusion for investor behaviour
and asset prices in a pure exchange, security market economy that is exposed to inﬂationary
ﬂuctuations. To demonstrate the role of money illusion as clearly as possible, we employ the
common constant-relative-risk-aversion (CRRA) preferences as the benchmark case with no
money illusion. To the best of our knowledge, ours is the ﬁrst attempt to directly embed money
illusion into an investor’s decision making and valuation framework.
Towards that, we develop a belief-based formulation of money illusion which accounts for
the systematic mistakes in evaluating real and nominal payoffs. In our analysis, we consider
the general case of partial illusion. In a mildly inﬂationary environment, an investor may
partially overlook and may not bother to fully take into account of the impact of inﬂation on
the purchasing power of currency in his intertemporal choice. That is, he partially overlooks
inﬂation in his decision making, since ignoring inﬂation simpliﬁes his decision-making process
and only incurs a small welfare loss. To capture this idea, we employ a generalized version
of the Modigliani–Cohn hypothesis, in which the illusioned-investor discounts future real
payoffs by a combination of nominal and real rates, with a degree of money illusion parameter
© 2010 The Review of Economic Studies Limited


916
REVIEW OF ECONOMIC STUDIES
controlling the bias towards nominal rates. We decompose this perception error in discounting
into a change of measure, representing the money-illusioned investor’s beliefs, and an ensuing
average discounting error, capturing the aspect that a money-illusioned investor tends to over-
discount payoffs in an inﬂationary environment. This tractable formulation nests the benchmark
case of a normal investor with no illusion, where the investor discounts real payoffs by real rates,
as well as the Modigliani–Cohn case of complete illusion, where the investor discounts real
payoffs by nominal rates. The money-illusioned investor’s dynamic consumption–investment
problem then takes place under his money-illusioned probability measure and the ensuing
average discounting error, which together fully represent his perception bias.
Our main ﬁndings are as follows. First, at a partial-equilibrium level, a money-illusioned
investor’s real consumption is decreasing in the price level (holding all else ﬁxed). To see the
intuition, recall that a normal investor’s optimal consumption plan is such that his marginal
utility is proportional to the cost of consumption in a given state. Consequently, the investor
consumes less in states for which consumption is relatively expensive, and more otherwise.
When the price level is increased, a normal investor understands that there is no change in
real prices, and so does not alter his consumption. A money-illusioned investor, however, is
confused between nominal and real quantities, and so perceives the consumption to be more
expensive, thereby consuming less. This prediction is consistent with the experimental evidence
in Raghubir and Srivastava (2002), who show that an individual decreases his expenditure when
faced with higher nominal price, and vice versa for lower nominal price.
Second, since the effects of money illusion at an individual investor level are similar across
investors, it is natural to expect those effects to show up at the aggregate level. To investigate
the impact of possibly widespread behaviour of money-illusioned investors in ﬁnancial markets,
we move to a general-equilibrium setting. Our focus is on the implications for asset prices and
their dynamics. Equilibrium in the presence of money illusion emerges rich in implications
and is able to generate various predictions, pertaining to inﬂation and asset price behaviour.
In particular, the real long-term bond yields and the dividend price ratio are positively related
to expected inﬂation under money illusion. The reason is that, as discussed above, money
illusion induces an investor to consume less when the price level increases. Thus, higher
expected inﬂation tends to lower future demand for consumption, and hence makes future
consumption “less valuable” in equilibrium. Since the stock and long-term bonds are claims
to future consumption, higher expected inﬂation leads to lower stock and bond prices, or
equivalently to higher dividend–price ratio and long bond yields.
The implication of a positive relation between expected inﬂation and dividend–price ratio
is consistent with the Modigliani and Cohn (1979) hypothesis. Further supportive empiri-
cal evidence for this implication is recently documented by Ritter and Warr (2002); Sharpe
(2002); Campbell and Vuolteenaho (2004); Cohen, Polk and Vuolteenaho (2005); Chordia and
Shivakumar (2005) and Basu, Markov and Shivakumar (2005). More recently, in the context
of housing prices, Brunnermeier and Julliard (2008) also provide evidence supporting this
argument. Piazzesi and Schneider (2008) combine the Modigliani–Cohn argument with dis-
agreement about inﬂation, and argue that both high and low inﬂation can lead to house price
frenzies. Also in the context of housing markets, Genesove and Meyer (2001) document that
home sellers appear to be averse to realizing nominal losses.
While the Modigliani and Cohn hypothesis is intuitive, by assumption it is silent on the
impact of money illusion on bond yields. This issue is addressed in our equilibrium model in
which interest rates are endogenously determined, and long bond yields are positively related
to long-term expected inﬂation, via a mechanism similar to the one for dividend–price ratio.
Our bond yield implication is also supported by the empirical ﬁndings in both UK data (Barr
and Campbell, 1997) and US data (Sharpe, 2002). More importantly, our analysis provides
© 2010 The Review of Economic Studies Limited


BASAK & YAN
EQUILIBRIUM ASSET PRICES AND INVESTOR BEHAVIOUR 917
a micro foundation for money illusion by showing that partially overlooking inﬂation has a
large impact on security prices but only a small utility cost. This result parallels that in Fehr
and Tyran (2001), who show that a small amount of individual-level money illusion can cause
considerable price rigidity at the aggregate level, with the impact of money-illusioned agents
being ampliﬁed by rational agents’ strategic responses. Both their analysis and ours underscore
the importance of money illusion by demonstrating that a slight degree of illusion can induce a
large impact on equilibrium. We also demonstrate how money illusion may induce stock return
predictability and excess volatility. The dividend–price ratio depends on expected inﬂation
under money illusion, and hence time variation in expected inﬂation naturally generates time
variation in dividend–price ratio, and so induces stock return predictability and higher volatility.
Finally, the baseline economic setting is extended to feature multiple investors with differ-
ent degrees of money illusion, in order to obtain further insights as to the effects of money
illusion, as well as to demonstrate the robustness of our main results. Now, the equilibrium is
additionally driven by the stochastic distribution of consumption across investors, leading to
richer dynamics. Here, the degree of money illusion in the economy is endogenously deter-
mined by the price level and the initial wealth distribution across investors. An important
implication is that the real short interest rate and realized inﬂation are negatively correlated
for empirically reasonable parameters. The reason is that when the realized inﬂation is high
(high price level), the money-illusioned investor’s consumption decreases, thereby decreasing
his consumption share in the economy. This brings the equilibrium closer to that in a normal
investor economy for which the interest rate is lower for empirically reasonable parameters.
This negative correlation result is consistent with empirical evidence (see Ang, Bekaert and
Wei, 2008 and the references therein).
The remainder of the article is organized as follows. In Section 2, we outline the economy
in the presence of money illusion and analyse the behaviour of a money-illusioned investor
at a partial equilibrium level. In Section 3, we investigate the impact of money illusion on
equilibrium asset prices and their dynamics. Section 4 generalizes the analysis to incorporate
heterogeneity across investors. Section 5 concludes and the Appendix provides all proofs.
2. ECONOMY WITH MONEY ILLUSION
We consider a continuous-time, pure-exchange security market economy with an inﬁnite hori-
zon. There is a single consumption good which serves as the numeraire. The economy is
exposed to inﬂationary ﬂuctuations and is populated by investors with money illusion.
2.1. Economic setup
The uncertainty is represented by a ﬁltered probability space (, F, {Ft}, P) on which is deﬁned
a two-dimensional Brownian motion ω = (ω1, ω2)⊤. Absent any behavioural biases, rational
investors’ beliefs are represented by the probability measure P. All stochastic processes are
assumed to be adapted to the information ﬁltration {Ft}. In what follows, given our focus, we
assume all processes and expectations introduced are well deﬁned, without explicitly stating
the required regularity conditions.
The aggregate consumption supply D is assumed to follow a geometric Brownian motion
process
dD(t) = D(t)

μDdt + σ ⊤
D dω(t)

,
© 2010 The Review of Economic Studies Limited


918
REVIEW OF ECONOMIC STUDIES
with μD, σD constants, and D(0) > 0. The price level of the good p, representing the consumer
price index (CPI) in the economy, is similarly modelled as
dp(t) = p(t)

μpdt + σ ⊤
p dω(t)

,
where the expected inﬂation μp and inﬂation volatility vector σp are constants, and p(0) = 1
without loss of generality. The lognormality assumptions on D and p are for simplicity, and
most of our main results and insights remain valid for more general processes (see Remark 2
of Section 3), for which the analysis can readily be extended. A more general inﬂation process,
incorporating mean reversion, is considered in Section 3.4.
Financial investment opportunities are represented by three securities: a real riskless bond,
a nominal riskless bond and a stock. The two bonds are assumed to be in zero net supply, and
the stock, which is a claim to aggregate consumption D, is assumed to be in positive net supply
of one share. The real riskless bond is (locally) riskless in real terms with an (instantaneous)
real interest rate of r. The nominal riskless bond is (locally) riskless in nominal terms with an
(instantaneous) nominal interest rate of R, while being risky in real terms. The prices, in real
terms, of the nominal bond and the stock, B and S, respectively, are posited to have dynamics
dB(t) = B(t)

R(t) −μp + ∥σp∥2
dt −σ ⊤
p dω(t)

,
dS(t) + D(t)dt = S(t)[μS(t) dt + σS(t)⊤dω(t)].
The real interest r, the stock mean return μS and volatility vector σS are to be determined
endogenously in equilibrium. The nominal price parameters (R, μp, σp) are taken as given in
our current analysis, but are endogenously determined in a subsequent analysis in concurrent
work as discussed in Section 5.2
An investor in the economy is endowed at time zero with one share of the stock, providing
him with an initial wealth of W (0) = S(0). He then chooses a non-negative consumption
process c and a portfolio process π, where π(t) ≡(πB(t), πS(t))⊤denotes the vector of fractions
of wealth invested in the nominal bond and the stock at time t, respectively. The investor’s
real ﬁnancial wealth process W follows
dW (t) = W (t)r(t)dt −c(t)dt + W (t)π(t)⊤[(μ(t) −r(t)1) dt + σ(t)dω(t)] .
(1)
An investor derives utility from intertemporal consumption, given by the standard CRRA utility
function
u(c(t), t) = e−ρt c(t)1−γ
1 −γ ,
γ > 0,
with ρ representing the time discount factor, γ the relative risk-aversion coefﬁcient and γ = 1
the logarithmic utility function.
2.2. Modelling money illusion
As discussed in Section 1, money illusion can be attributed to intuitive decision making based
on more accessible information since real-life economic situations are dominantly expressed in
2. The presence of a nominal bond and a real bond is not necessary in our analysis. Given the completeness
of markets, the presence of any other two non-redundant ﬁnancial securities would do. However, we have introduced
these two bonds here for expositional convenience.
© 2010 The Review of Economic Studies Limited


BASAK & YAN
EQUILIBRIUM ASSET PRICES AND INVESTOR BEHAVIOUR 919
nominal terms (Shaﬁr, Diamond and Tversky, 1997; Fehr and Tyran, 2001, 2007; Kahneman,
2003). Moreover, Modigliani and Cohn (1979) postulate that “investors capitalize equity earn-
ings at a rate that parallels the nominal interest rate, rather than the economically correct real
rate”. That is, according to this view, an investor with money illusion effectively discounts
future real payoffs at nominal rather than real rates. We formalize this view below by mod-
elling money illusion directly as a bias in beliefs, in two steps. We ﬁrst identify the stochastic
process capturing the discounting error (as hypothesized by Modigliani and Cohn) by com-
paring a money-illusioned investor’s valuation of the stock with that of a rational investor’s.
Then, from this stochastic process, we recover the implied bias in perception.
Speciﬁcally, if an investor is rational, he discounts real payoffs by his real discount rate.
In this setup, his real discount rate over the time interval [t, s] is given by his marginal
rate of substitution, u′(s)/u′(t), where u′(t) ≡∂u(c(t), t)/∂c(t) denotes his marginal utility of
consumption at time t. Therefore, a rational investor’s valuation of the stock is given by
S(t) = Et
	 ∞
t
u′(s)
u′(t) D(s)ds

,
(2)
where the expectation Et[·] is under rational beliefs represented by the probability measure P.
Now we turn to a money-illusioned investor. Under the Modigliani–Cohn hypothesis, a money-
illusioned investor mistakenly uses his nominal discount rate to discount real payoffs. Since
an investor’s nominal discount rate over the time interval [t, s] is (u′(s)/p(s))/(u′(t)/p(t)), a
money-illusioned investor’s stock valuation is given by
S(t) = Et
	 ∞
t
u′(s)/p(s)
u′(t)/p(t) D(s)ds

.
(3)
We note that expression (3) captures the extreme case of complete money illusion, where the
investor is completely confused between nominal and real discount rates.
In our analysis, we consider the more general case of partial illusion, where the investor
partially overlooks the difference between the real and nominal discount rates. Here, the investor
uses a combination of nominal and real rates to discount real payoffs, and so his stock valu-
ation is
S(t) = Et
	 ∞
t
u′(s)/p(s)
u′(t)/p(t)
δ u′(s)
u′(t)
1−δ
D(s)ds

,
= Et
	 ∞
t
 p(t)
p(s)
δ u′(s)
u′(t) D(s)ds

,
0 ≤δ ≤1,
(4)
where the parameter δ represents the degree of money illusion. This formulation turns out
to not only be tractable, but to also have the convenient property of nesting the benchmark
case of a normal investor with no illusion as a special case (for δ = 0), in addition to the
Modigliani–Cohn case of complete illusion (for δ = 1).3 By comparing the rational investor’s
valuation (equation (2)) with that of the money-illusioned investor’s (equation (4)), we ﬁnd
that the money-illusioned investor’s error is fully captured by the process (p(t)/p(s))δ.
Since we wish to formulate the perception error in (4) as a bias in beliefs under our
generalized Modigliani–Cohn hypothesis, we are interested in identifying money-illusioned
3. One can imagine that investors may more properly account for inﬂation (i.e. δ decreases) after a period of
high inﬂation. However, as an initial step towards understanding money illusion, we treat δ as an exogenous constant
for simplicity and leave the dynamics of δ for future research.
© 2010 The Review of Economic Studies Limited


920
REVIEW OF ECONOMIC STUDIES
beliefs, represented by a probability measure P∗, consistent with equation (4). It is clear from
equation (4) that the process (p(t)/p(s))δ quantiﬁes the error in discounting and hence would
link the rational beliefs P with the money-illusioned beliefs P∗. However, (p(t)/p(s))δ generally
would not exactly coincide with a change of measure, unless restricted to be a martingale.
Hence, we may consider normalizing it by its average so as to obtain the desired change
of measure. In particular, we decompose the discounting error (p(t)/p(s))δ into a positive
martingale process and a ﬁnite variation process, and after some algebra, reach the following
up-to-a-constant unique decomposition:
 p(t)
p(s)
δ
= e−b(s−t) η(s)
η(t) ,
s > t,
(5)
where
b ≡δμp −1
2δ(1 + δ)∥σp∥2,
η(t) ≡e−1
2 δ2∥σp∥2t−δσ ⊤
p ω(t).
The ﬁrst component e−b(s−t) quantiﬁes the average discounting error since Et[(p(t)/p(s))δ] =
e−b(s−t). This component is less than 1 in an inﬂationary environment (μp > 1
2(1 + δ)∥σp∥2),
and hence captures the aspect that a money-illusioned investor tends to over-discount payoffs
in this environment. Similarly, this component is greater than 1 in a deﬂationary environment
(μp < 1
2(1 + δ)∥σp∥2). The second martingale component η(s)/η(t) recovers the density process
(Radon–Nikodym derivative) of the money-illusioned probability measure P∗with respect to
the original measure P:
dP∗
dP

s
= η(s)
η(t) ,
s > t.
That is, decomposition (5) reveals that money illusion manifests itself through two channels:
the ﬁrst captures the tendency of over-discounting in an inﬂationary environment, and the
second reﬂects the implied change of measure. Similarly, Jouini and Napp (2007), in the
context of aggregating heterogeneous beliefs into a consensus belief, also decompose a pertinent
process (their so-called characteristic process) into a discounting component and a change of
measure.
The consequence of the above belief-based formulation is that the money-illusioned investor
is effectively endowed with the probability space (, F, {Ft}, P∗) and an ensuing average dis-
counting error e−b(s−t). The probability measure P∗and the parameter b account for the
investor’s bias in perception which causes systematic mistakes in evaluating real and nominal
quantities, including discounting real payoffs by nominal rates.4 For example, under our gen-
eralized Modigliani–Cohn hypothesis, the money-illusioned investor’s valuation of the stock
under his perception satisﬁes
S(t) = E ∗
t
	 ∞
t
e−b(s−t) u′(s)
u′(t) D(s)ds

= Et
	 ∞
t
 p(t)
p(s)
δ u′(s)
u′(t) D(s)ds

,
where the illusioned-investor’s expectation E ∗
t [·] is taken under P∗. That is, the probability
measure P∗and the ensuing average discounting error captured by b fully represent the money-
illusioned investor’s behaviour of effectively discounting real payoffs by a combination of
nominal and real rates.
4. Moreover, under the money-illusioned investor’s beliefs, P∗is deﬁned a Brownian motion ω∗(t), which by
Girsanov’s theorem, is given by dω∗(t) = dω(t) + δσpdt.
© 2010 The Review of Economic Studies Limited


BASAK & YAN
EQUILIBRIUM ASSET PRICES AND INVESTOR BEHAVIOUR 921
Our formulation implies that, as in Modigliani and Cohn (1979), money-illusioned investors
overlook the fact that higher expected inﬂation leads to higher future nominal payoffs, and hence
underestimate the expected dividend growth rate and the expected stock return in an inﬂationary
environment. However, the Modigliani–Cohn hypothesis does not address the impact of money
illusion on nominal bonds, while our formulation does. In ours, the money-illusioned investors
know the nominal payoffs from nominal bonds but are confused about their real payoffs, and
hence affect the bond markets. Consequently, our model allows us to study the impact of
money illusion on both the stock and bond markets in a uniﬁed framework, complementing
the Modigliani–Cohn analysis.
2.3. Investor’s behaviour under money illusion
The money-illusioned investor’s dynamic problem under his perception, namely his money-
illusioned probability measure P∗and the ensuing average discounting error driven by b, is
max
c,π
E ∗
	 ∞
0
e−btu(c(t), t)dt

= E
	 ∞
0
η(t)e−btu(c(t), t)dt

,
(6)
subject to (1). That is, the money-illusioned investor’s objective function under rational beliefs
inherits the change of probability measure η and an additional discounting parameter b, reﬂect-
ing his tendency to over-discount in an inﬂationary environment. Hereafter, for expositional
convenience, we will present our analysis under the original probability measure P.
To solve for the optimal consumption–portfolio policies, we employ standard martingale
methods (Karatzas, Lehoczky and Shreve, 1987; Cox and Huang, 1989). In particular, we ﬁrst
construct the state price density process from the available securities in ﬁnancial markets. The
posited dynamic market completeness implies the existence of a unique real state price density
process ξ, given by
dξ(t) = −ξ(t)

r(t)dt + κ(t)⊤dω(t)

,
where the market price of risk (or Sharpe ratio) process κ is given by κ(t) = σ(t)−1[μ(t) −
r(t)1], with vector of drifts μ ≡

R −μp + ∥σp∥2, μS
⊤, the volatility matrix σ ≡

−σp, σS
⊤
and 1 ≡(1, 1)⊤. The quantity ξ(t, ω) is interpreted as the Arrow–Debreu state price of one
unit of the good to be delivered at (t, ω), ω ∈. We then can conveniently characterize the
optimal solution, as reported in Proposition 1, in terms of this state price density and price
level p. For ease of comparison, we note that a normal investor with no illusion (δ = 0), N ,
chooses the optimal consumption to be (e.g. Cox and Huang, 1989)
cN(t) =

yNeρtξ(t)
−1/γ ,
(7)
where the Lagrange multiplier associated with the static budget constraint yN is given by

yN−1/γ = W (0)

E
	 ∞
0
e−ρt/γ ξ(t)(γ −1)/γ dt

−1
.
(8)
Proposition 1.
A money-illusioned investor’s real consumption choice is given by
c(t) =

yeρtξ(t)
−1/γ p(t)−δ/γ ,
(9)
and the Lagrange multiplier y is
y−1/γ = W (0)

E
	 ∞
0
e−ρt/γ ξ(t)(γ −1)/γ p(t)−δ/γ dt

−1
.
(10)
© 2010 The Review of Economic Studies Limited


922
REVIEW OF ECONOMIC STUDIES
Consequently,
(i) Real consumption choice c is decreasing in the price level p (holding all else ﬁxed).
(ii) The Lagrange multiplier y is decreasing in expected inﬂation μp.
(iii) Under the condition E
 ∞
0 e−ρt/γ ξ(t)(γ −1)/γ p(t)−δ/γ ln p(t)dt

> 0, the Lagrange multi-
plier y is decreasing in δ.
Proposition 1 reveals that the money-illusioned investor’s real consumption is generally
dependent on the price level, and in particular, decreases in the price level.5 To see this result,
ﬁrst consider a normal investor who chooses his optimal consumption plan so that his marginal
utility is proportional to the cost of consumption (real state price density) in a given state.
Consequently, the investor consumes more in states for which consumption is relatively cheap,
and less for which consumption is relatively expensive. Now suppose that the price level in a
state is increased. This only increases the nominal price of consumption in that state but has
no impact on the real price. Recognizing this rationally, the normal investor then does not alter
his consumption and is not affected by the price level change. A money-illusioned investor,
however, is confused between nominal and real quantities and perceives the consumption
in that state to be more expensive. As a result, the money-illusioned investor allocates less
consumption to that state, leading to implication (i) in Proposition 1. Supportive evidence for
this implication is documented, via a series of experiments, by Raghubir and Srivastava (2002).
These authors demonstrate that individuals purchase less of a product in real terms when the
price of the product is denominated in a “cheaper” currency, that is, when the nominal price
level is higher, and vice versa when the nominal price level is lower.
Properties (ii)–(iii) reveal that there is an additional, indirect effect of money illusion
via the Lagrange multiplier y associated with the investor’s static budget constraint. This
“wealth effect” captures how wealthy the investor is initially, and is present even if there is
currently no inﬂation (p(t) = 1). According to property (ii), higher expected inﬂation reduces
this multiplier, and hence induces the investor to consume more (c is decreasing in y from
(9)) even if the price level may not have changed from the initial date. Intuitively, a higher
expected inﬂation implies a higher nominal wealth growth rate, making a money-illusioned
investor feel richer and hence increase his current consumption, which reduces his future
consumption growth. Similarly, property (iii) reveals that in an inﬂationary environment with
higher expected inﬂation (when the condition in (iii) holds), a higher degree of money illusion
(higher δ) leads the investor to consume more now through the indirect y effect, even if there
is no concurrent inﬂation.
3. EQUILIBRIUM IN THE PRESENCE OF MONEY ILLUSION
In this section we investigate the equilibrium effects of money illusion and focus on the
case of there being a representative money-illusioned investor, where the parameter δ may
be interpreted as the degree of money illusion in the economy. Section 4 relaxes this single-
investor assumption to heterogeneous investors with varying degrees of illusion. Following
5. In the early literature (e.g. Leontief, 1936; Patinkin, 1965, p. 22), money illusion is deﬁned as a violation of
the homogeneity property, the demand and supply functions being homogenous of degree zero in all nominal prices.
This deﬁnition is consistent with (9).
© 2010 The Review of Economic Studies Limited


BASAK & YAN
EQUILIBRIUM ASSET PRICES AND INVESTOR BEHAVIOUR 923
the standard deﬁnition of competitive equilibrium, we deﬁne equilibrium in the economy with
money illusion as follows.6
Deﬁnition 1.
An equilibrium is a price system (r, S) and consumption–portfolio policies
(c, π) such that: (i) the investor chooses his optimal consumption–portfolio strategies given
his money-illusioned perception bias, and (ii) good and security markets clear, i.e.
c(t) = D(t), πB(t) = 0, πS(t) = 1, W (t) = S(t).
(11)
3.1. Interest rate and market price of risk
In the benchmark economy with no money illusion (δ = 0), the price of real consumption, ξN ,
and its dynamics are not dependent on the price level, and are given by
ξN (t) = e−ρtD(t)−γ ,
(12)
rN = ρ + γ μD −1
2γ (γ + 1)∥σD∥2,
(13)
κN = γ σD.
(14)
Proposition 2 solves for the equilibrium state price density and its dynamics in the presence of
money illusion.
Proposition 2.
In the economy with money illusion, under the probability measure P, the
state price density, real interest rate and market price of risk are given by
ξ(t) = e−ρtD(t)−γ p(t)−δ,
(15)
r = ρ + γ μD −1
2γ (γ + 1)∥σD∥2 + δ

μp −1 + δ
2
∥σp∥2 −γ σ ⊤
D σp

,
(16)
κ = γ σD + δσp.
(17)
Consequently,
(i) The state price density ξ is decreasing in the price level p.
(ii) The short real interest rate is increasing in expected inﬂation.
In the presence of money illusion (δ > 0), the price of real consumption ξ is directly driven
by the price level, and so its dynamics (r, κ) are affected by expected inﬂation and volatility.
As stated in property (i), real state prices are decreasing in the price level. This result is
a consequence of the consumption behaviour of a money-illusioned investor in that his real
consumption decreases when the price level increases (Proposition 1(i)). The lower demand
due to money illusion makes the consumption good “less valuable”, thereby decreasing the
state prices. Moreover, property (ii) reveals that the real interest rate and expected inﬂation are
positively related. The intuition is that when expected inﬂation increases, the future price levels
tend to be higher, and hence the demand for real consumption tends to be lower in the future
6. There is no explicit economic role of money (such as via a cash-in-advance constraint or a money-in-
the-utility-function formulation). Hence, in this section and in Section 4, the nominal price parameters (R, μp, σp)
are exogenously speciﬁed, and need only to obey the extended Fisher equation, R(t) = r(t) + μp −∥σp∥2 −σ ⊤
p κ, a
no-arbitrage restriction implied by the market price of risk process.
© 2010 The Review of Economic Studies Limited


924
REVIEW OF ECONOMIC STUDIES
(Proposition 1(i)). The real bond is then less appealing to the investor, and so the interest rate
has to rise to counteract this.7
As for the market price of risk in the presence of money illusion, it is now also driven
by the ﬂuctuations in price level σp, in addition to the aggregate consumption volatility σD.
As a consequence, the variability in state prices, ∥κ∥, is increased by the presence of money
illusion, for low correlation between price level and aggregate consumption (σ ⊤
D σp), as empirical
evidence suggests.
3.2. Stock price, dividend–price ratio and bond yields
We now turn to the behaviour of the stock price and long-term bond yields in the presence of
money illusion. Letting B(t, T) denote the time-t price of a zero coupon bond with payoff one
unit of consumption upon its maturity T, we deﬁne its yield r(t, T) as
r(t, T) ≡−
1
T −t ln B(t, T).
We also deﬁne the long-term expected inﬂation from time t to T, μp(t, T), as8
μp(t, T) ≡
1
T −t Et

ln p (T)
p (t)

+ 1
2∥σp∥2.
(18)
We note that under the geometric Brownian motion assumption on p, μp(t, T) = μp for all T.
Note also that the instantaneous real interest rate r and expected inﬂation μp are the limits of
r(t, T) and μp(t, T) when T goes to t. Proposition 3 reports the equilibrium stock price and
bond yields.
Proposition 3.
In the economy with money illusion, the stock price is given by
S(t) =
D(t)
ρ + (γ −1)

μD −1
2γ ∥σD∥2
+ φ
,
(19)
where
φ ≡δ

μp −1 + δ
2
∥σp∥2 −(γ −1)σ ⊤
D σp

,
(20)
and the real term structure is ﬂat, that is, r(t, T) = r for all T.
Moreover,
(i) The dividend–price ratio D/S is increasing in expected inﬂation.
(ii) The long-term bond yields r(t, T) are increasing in long-term expected inﬂation μp(t, T).
The effect of money illusion on stock valuation is to make the stock price level directly
depend on expected inﬂation and its volatility, in contrast to the benchmark economy (δ = 0)
7. The empirical evidence for the relation between the real short rate and expected inﬂation is mixed. Barr
and Campbell (1997) ﬁnd that the levels of real interest rates and expected inﬂation have positive correlation, but
the changes in real interest rates and expected inﬂation have negative correlation. Clearly, the rich dynamics of the
real short rate cannot fully be captured by our simple model. However, as we demonstrate in Sections 3.4 and 4, our
baseline setting can easily be extended to capture richer dynamics.
8. The variance term 1
2∥σp∥2 is a standard Jensen’s Inequality adjustment for taking expectation of a logarithm
function.
© 2010 The Review of Economic Studies Limited


BASAK & YAN
EQUILIBRIUM ASSET PRICES AND INVESTOR BEHAVIOUR 925
in which there is no such effect (φ = 0). Moreover, as stated in property (i), the dividend–price
ratio is increasing in expected inﬂation. The reason for this is that higher expected inﬂation
implies higher future price levels, and hence future consumption becomes “less valuable”
(Proposition 2(i)). Since the stock is a claim to future aggregate consumption, a higher expected
inﬂation then leads to a lower stock price or, equivalently, to a higher dividend–price ratio.
We note that this positive relation between expected inﬂation and dividend–price ratio is
consistent with the empirical evidence documented in various studies including Modigliani and
Cohn (1979), Ritter and Warr (2002), Sharpe (2002) and Campbell and Vuolteenaho (2004).
In fact, these studies also attribute the positive relation between expected inﬂation and
dividend–price ratio to money illusion. For example, Modigliani and Cohn (1979) postulate
that the low stock valuation (higher dividend–price ratio) in the 1970s, when the expected
inﬂation was high, is caused by money illusion. More speciﬁcally, money-illusioned investors
discount real payoffs by nominal rates, and so tend to over-discount in an inﬂationary envi-
ronment. Consequently, a higher expected inﬂation leads to a lower stock value, i.e. a higher
dividend–price ratio.
This hypothesis is intuitive, yet by assumption leaves the discount rate indeterminate and
hence is silent on the impact of money illusion on bond yields. This issue is addressed in our
equilibrium model where the interest rates are endogenously determined. Property (ii) shows
that long-term bond yields are also positively related to long-term expected inﬂation. Similar
to (i), higher expected inﬂation makes future real consumption “less valuable”, and hence the
long-term bonds, increasing the long-term bond yields. This implication is also consistent with
the empirical ﬁndings in both UK data (Barr and Campbell, 1997) and US data (Sharpe, 2002).
3.3. Economic signiﬁcance of money illusion
We here perform a simple calibration of our baseline model to quantitatively assess the eco-
nomic signiﬁcance of money illusion on an investor’s welfare and the equilibrium security
prices and their dynamics. Towards this, we assume throughout our baseline economic environ-
ment with a representative investor exhibiting a degree of money illusion δ, and hence the equi-
librium security prices and their dynamics are as given by Propositions 2–3 in our calibrations.
We quantify the welfare loss due to money illusion as follows. Consider a normal investor
without money illusion who chooses the consumption plan cN(t) given by (7) in Section 2.3,
and so his indirect utility is
U N (W (0)) = E
	 ∞
0
e−ρt cN(t)1−γ
1 −γ
dt

,
(21)
for given initial wealth W (0). Suppose now that the investor has to follow the alternative
money-illusioned consumption plan c(t) given by (9), and so his indirect utility becomes
U (W (0)) = E
	 ∞
0
e−ρt c(t)1−γ
1 −γ dt

.
(22)
We deﬁne the welfare loss measure, k(δ), for a given degree of money illusion δ, as the
investor’s loss quantiﬁed in units of initial wealth and satisfying
U N (W (0)(1 −k(δ))) = U (W (0)).
(23)
The left-hand side of (23) is the normal investor’s indirect utility with initial wealth reduced by
a fraction of k(δ), while the right-hand side is his indirect utility if forced to follow the optimal
consumption plan of an investor with a degree of illusion δ. That is, for a normal investor,
© 2010 The Review of Economic Studies Limited


926
REVIEW OF ECONOMIC STUDIES
taking the consumption plan of an investor with a degree of money illusion δ is equivalent to
giving up a proportion k(δ) of his wealth.
The rationale behind (23) is as follows. An investor uses a standard CRRA speciﬁcation
to guide his consumption and investment decisions. However, due to overlook or various
constraints such as the cost of obtaining detailed information on inﬂation, the investor just
follows a simpler decision rule which often ignores inﬂation. Proposition 4 explicitly solves
for this loss measure k(δ) as a function of the primitive parameters in the model.
Proposition 4.
The welfare loss k(δ) deﬁned in (23) is given by
k(δ) = 1 −(ρ + η2)1/(γ −1) (ρ + η3)
(η1 + ρ/γ )γ/(γ −1)
,
(24)
where
η1 ≡γ −1
γ
r + γ −1
γ 2
∥κ∥2
2
,
η2 ≡(γ −1) μD −1
2γ (γ −1) ∥σD∥2 ,
η3 ≡η2 + δ

μp −1
2 (1 + δ)
σp
2 −(γ −1) σ ⊤
D σp

,
and r and κ are as in Proposition 2.
For our calibration, the dividend parameters, μD and ∥σD∥, are chosen to match the
consumption data, based on the US quarterly data from 1891 to 1998 in Campbell (2003):
μD = 0.01789, ∥σD∥= 0.03218. Based on the quarterly price index data from the US Depart-
ment of Commerce, Bureau of Economic Analysis during the post-war years 1951–2003, we
set μp = 0.034, ∥σp∥= 0.025, and σ T
p σD = 0.00025. Substituting the above parameters into
the expression of k(δ) in (24) leads to a function of δ, γ and ρ. We then plot k(δ), δ ∈[0, 1],
for various values of γ ∈[2, 5] and ρ ∈[0.01, 0.05]. It turns out that for all plots, k(δ) in
general is relatively small. Figure 1 plots k(δ) for the intermediate case of ρ = 0.02 and is
representative of our conclusions. For instance, for γ = 3 and δ = 0.2, k(δ) is merely 0.004.
That is, for a normal investor following the consumption plan of an investor with a degree
of money illusion 0.2 it is equivalent to giving up 0.4% of his initial wealth. The results for
other parameter values for γ and ρ are similar: the welfare loss k(δ) is generally less than 1%
when δ = 0.2 and only becomes non-negligible when the degree of money illusion δ is large.
Similar results are obtained from the calibrations for the cases in which the investor has a ﬁnite
horizon. These results support the bounded rationality viewpoint that instead of going through
the trouble of fully incorporating inﬂation all the time, an investor may partially overlook the
impact of inﬂation. Our welfare loss ﬁndings are also consistent with the analysis of Cochrane
(1989), who demonstrates that simple rules of thumb for consumption (“near rational” alter-
natives) only incur very small utility costs. Similarly, in our setting with a mildly inﬂationary
environment, a money-illusioned investor’s consumption choice does not deviate much from
the optimal one, and hence only leads to a small welfare loss.
We next consider the quantitative effects of money illusion on security prices and their
dynamics. These are simply obtained from the explicit expressions in Propositions 2 and 3 for
varying levels of δ given the calibrated model parameters. Figure 1 also plots the effect on
the stock price level, and is representative of all other plots. We see that in contrast to the
© 2010 The Review of Economic Studies Limited


BASAK & YAN
EQUILIBRIUM ASSET PRICES AND INVESTOR BEHAVIOUR 927
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
0
0.05
0.1
0.15
0.2
0.25
0.3
0.35
0.4
0.45
0.5
δ
 
γ=5
γ=4
γ=3
γ=2
k(δ)
1−S(δ)/S(0)
Figure 1
Welfare loss and stock price effect of money illusion. This ﬁgure plots an investor’s welfare loss measure k(δ),
given by equation (24), and 1 −S(δ)/S(0), where S(δ) and S(0) are the stock prices when the degree of money
illusion is δ and 0, respectively, for varying levels of investor’s relative risk-aversion γ . The relevant parameter
values are set as: μD = 0.01789, ∥σD∥= 0.03218 (Campbell, 2003), μp = 0.034, ∥σp∥= 0.025, σ T
p σD = 0.00025
(US Department of Commerce), and ρ = 0.02.
small welfare loss, money illusion has a signiﬁcant impact on the equilibrium stock price. For
example, for γ = 3, ρ = 0.02 and δ = 0.2, the stock price in the presence of money illusion is
10.67% lower than that in the benchmark case with no illusion. Similar large effects on other
variables, such as the interest rate and the market price of risk, are obtained. To understand
why money illusion has such a large impact on asset prices in typical economic environments,
we note that the historical inﬂation rate is 3.4%. Hence, a money-illusioned investor with
δ = 0.2 generally over-discounts by 0.68% (= 0.2 × 3.4%). This is substantial given that in
the absence of money illusion, the real interest rate is on par with the real consumption growth
rate (equation (18)), which historically is only around 1.8%.
Finally, it is worth noting that the average inﬂation during the 1970s was twice that of the
entire post-war period. To assess our model’s quantitative implication for this high inﬂation
period on the stock market valuation, we repeat our calibration based on the 1970s inﬂation
data μp = 0.068, ∥σp∥= 0.026 (US Department of Commerce). By comparing the post-war
and 1970s calibrations, our model implies that for the case of γ = 3, δ = 0.2, the stock market
valuation during the 1970s should be 9.9% lower than that during the post-war period. This
implication is fairly close to the actual data: according to the estimates by Robert Shiller, the
© 2010 The Review of Economic Studies Limited


928
REVIEW OF ECONOMIC STUDIES
stock market valuation during the 1970s was 11.4% lower than the average during the post-war
period.9
3.4. Time-varying expected inﬂation
In this section, we generalize the current economic setting to incorporate mean reversion in
expected inﬂation, and hence obtain richer dynamics for the equilibrium price processes. In
particular, we assume the price level to follow
dp(t) = p(t)

μp(t)dt + σ ⊤
p dω(t)

,
(25)
with the instantaneous expected inﬂation μp following a mean reverting process
dμp(t) = β

μp −μp(t)

dt + σ ⊤
μpdω(t),
(26)
where μp and σμp are constants. As shown in the Appendix, the long-term expected inﬂation
μ(t, T) is a linear combination of the instantaneous expected inﬂation μp(t) and the long-run
expected inﬂation μp, given by
μ(t, T) = 1 −e−β(T−t)
β(T −t)
μp (t) +

1 −1 −e−β(T−t)
β(T −t)

μp.
(27)
The previous analysis can straightforwardly be extended to this setting, as demonstrated in the
Appendix. We here only report the expressions for the stock price and real long-term bond
yields for brevity.
Proposition 5.
In the economy with money illusion and mean reverting expected inﬂation,
the equilibrium stock price and the long-term bond yields are given by
S(t) = D(t) f (μp(t)),
(28)
r(t, T) = g(T −t) + δμp(t, T),
(29)
where f (·) and g(·) are deterministic functions with f (·) > 0, f ′(·) < 0, and are provided in the
Appendix.
Consequently,
(i) The dividend–price ratio does not predict the future dividend growth but predicts the future
stock returns.
(ii) The volatility vector for the stock return is σS(t) = σD + f ′(μp(t))
f (μp(t)) σμp.
(iii) The dividend–price ratio is increasing in expected inﬂation μp(t).
(iv) The long-term bond yields r(t, T) are increasing in long-term expected inﬂation μp(t, T).
Under this richer setting, money illusion induces the price–dividend ratio to be time varying,
even though the dividends follow a geometric random walk (since D/S is monotonic in μp
and μp is mean reverting). This implies that, consistent with empirical ﬁndings (e.g. Campbell
and Shiller, 2004), the dividend–price ratio does not predict the future dividend growth but
predicts future stock returns. Moreover, due to money illusion, the variation in expected inﬂation
9. The stock market valuation is measured by the ratio of price and 10-year moving average of earnings of the
S&P 500 Index. The data is available at http://www.econ.yale.edu/ shiller/data.htm.
© 2010 The Review of Economic Studies Limited


BASAK & YAN
EQUILIBRIUM ASSET PRICES AND INVESTOR BEHAVIOUR 929
induces variation in the dividend–price ratio, and hence in stock returns. In particular, the
stock return volatility is increased under empirically plausible parameters. Speciﬁcally, since
empirical evidence suggests σ ⊤
μpσD < 0 (Hess and Lee, 1999), the σS expression in property (ii)
implies that ∥σS∥> ∥σD∥. Since the original studies on “excess volatility” (LeRoy and Porter,
1981; Shiller, 1981) and “predictability” (Fama and French, 1988), extensive efforts have been
devoted to these issues, though a consensus view is still not reached.10 The results in properties
(i) and (ii) suggest that money illusion may further add an ingredient to this ongoing debate.
Properties (iii) and (iv) on the dependence of the dividend–price ratio and long-term bond
yields on expected inﬂation conﬁrm the earlier results of Proposition 3, but now in a richer
economic setting. The intuition, again, is that higher expected inﬂation implies higher price
levels in the future, making future real consumption “less valuable”, and hence leading to
higher dividend–price ratio and bond yields.
Remark 1
(A preference-based formulation of money illusion).
We have so far em-
ployed a belief-based formulation to analyse the implications of money illusion. We here present
an alternative tractable formulation, based on a preference speciﬁcation, which incorporates the
potential confusion between real and nominal quantities into an investor’s decision-making and
valuation framework. In particular, we posit that an investor’s objective function is represented
over real as well as nominal consumption, with a degree of money illusion θ controlling the
bias towards nominal evaluation:
u(c, p) =
1
1 −γ

c1−θ(pc)θ1−γ ,
γ > 0,
0 ≤θ ≤1.
This formulation has essentially the same foundation as traditional preferences11 and captures
in reduced form that an investor may partially evaluate his objectives based on nominal instead
of real terms, and nests the benchmark case of a normal investor with no illusion (θ = 0), as
well as the case of complete illusion (θ = 1). As in our belief-based formulation, the investor
is guided by CRRA preferences with the risk-aversion coefﬁcient γ.
As shown in Basak and Yan (2007), it turns out that this preference-based formulation for
the case of more risk averse than logarithmic (γ > 1), which is the more empirically plausible
case, leads to the same results as in our belief-based formulation, with the exception in Section
5. Technically, the analysis in the current paper goes through with δ essentially replaced by
θ(γ −1), though the economic intuition for a number of implications is somewhat different
since the mechanism for money illusion is via preferences rather than beliefs. More recently,
Miao and Xie (2007) have adopted our preference-based formulation of money illusion to
explore its implications on monetary policy and long-run growth.
Remark 2
(More general consumption supply and price level processes).
For most
of our analysis, we employ the geometric Brownian motion speciﬁcation, with constant drift
and volatility, for both the consumption supply D and the price level process p. However, much
of our analysis and conclusions are valid for more general processes for which the drifts and
volatilities of D and p are general adapted processes. Indeed, Propositions 1 and 2 (equations
(9)–(10), (15)–(17)) and their implications (properties (i) and (ii)) pertaining to consumption
10. See Campbell (2003) and Barberis and Thaler (2003) for recent surveys.
11. See Lofﬂer (2001) for an analysis on the axiomatic foundation for a demand function that violates homo-
geneity and so, as he discusses, exhibits money illusion.
© 2010 The Review of Economic Studies Limited


930
REVIEW OF ECONOMIC STUDIES
and state price density behaviour clearly hold for general D and p Itˆo processes. With the price
level generally modelled as
dp(t) = p(t)[μp(t)dt + σp(t)⊤dω(t)],
where μp, σp are possibly stochastic processes, the illusioned-investor’s objective function is as
in (6), with b replaced by its stochastic counterpart b(t) ≡δ
t
 t
0

μp(τ) −1
2(1 + δ)
σp(τ)
2
dτ
and the illusioned probability measure P∗given by (dP∗/dP)s = e−1
2
 s
t ∥δσp(τ)∥2dτ−
 s
t δσp(τ)⊤dω(τ).
Nevertheless, we did rely on the geometric Brownian motion speciﬁcation, at places, to obtain
closed-form expressions for the prices for long-lived securities, such as the stock price and
long-term bond prices in Proposition 3 (Section 3.2). However, as properties (iii) and (iv) of
Proposition 5 conﬁrm, our main ﬁndings pertaining to long-lived assets hold more generally
under richer settings than geometric Brownian motion.
4. INVESTOR HETEROGENEITY AND MONEY ILLUSION
We now generalize our equilibrium analysis of Section 3 containing a single representative
illusioned investor to a setting with multiple investors having different degrees of money
illusion. This will allow us to investigate the effects of investor heterogeneity in the presence
of money illusion on the ensuing equilibrium. Apart from conﬁrming the insights we get from
the homogeneous investor model, this modiﬁcation also generates some new insights arising
from the interaction between money-illusioned and normal investors.
In particular, we assume that the economy is populated by two types of investors, iden-
tical normal investors with no money illusion (δ = 0) and investors with complete money
illusion (δ = 1). The partial-equilibrium economic setting is as in Section 2 and both of these
types of investors’ optimal policies are presented in Section 2.3 (equations (7)–(8) for the
normal; equations (9)–(10) for the illusioned). The deﬁnition of equilibrium is then a two-
investor version of Deﬁnition 1 in Section 3. Proposition 6 characterizes the equilibrium in
this heterogeneous investor economy.
Proposition 6.
In the economy with a normal investor and a completely money-illusioned
investor, the equilibrium state price density, interest rate, market price of risk and stock price
are given by
ξ(t) = e−ρtD(t)−γ 
1 −ˆδ(t)
−γ ,
(30)
r(t) = ρ + γ μD −1
2γ (γ + 1)∥σD∥2
+ˆδ(t)

μp +
(γ −1) (1 −ˆδ(t))
2γ
−1

∥σp∥2 −γ σ ⊤
D σp

,
(31)
κ(t) = γ σD + ˆδ(t)σp,
(32)
S(t) = D(t)Et
	 ∞
t
e−ρ(s−t)
D(s)
D(t)
−(γ −1)1 −ˆδ(s)
1 −ˆδ(t)
−γ
ds

,
(33)
where the consumption share, ˆδ, is the ratio of the illusioned investor’s consumption to the
aggregate consumption, representing the degree of money illusion, and is given by
ˆδ(t) =
1
1 + y1/γ p(t)1/γ ,
(34)
© 2010 The Review of Economic Studies Limited


BASAK & YAN
EQUILIBRIUM ASSET PRICES AND INVESTOR BEHAVIOUR 931
and the initial wealth weight y satisﬁes the illusioned investor’s static budget constraint (10)
with (30) and (34) substituted in.
Consequently,
(i) The state price density is decreasing in the price level.
(ii) The real short rate and realized inﬂation are negatively correlated, covt(dr(t), dp(t)) < 0,
under the condition μp >

1 + γ −1
γ (ˆδ(t) −1
2)

∥σp∥2 + γ σ ⊤
D σp.
As compared with the single illusioned-investor economy, the equilibrium is now addition-
ally driven by the stochastic distribution of consumption across investors (ˆδ) and the relative
initial wealth distribution (y). The driving process ˆδ is the consumption share (c/D) of the
illusioned investor and plays the role of the exogenously speciﬁed constant parameter δ in the
single-investor economy. In particular, ˆδ captures the degree of money illusion in the econ-
omy, which is now stochastic and is endogenously determined by the price level and the initial
wealth distribution. Indeed, when the relative weight of the illusioned investor 1/y approaches
0, the degree of illusion ˆδ gradually vanishes, and all the equilibrium quantities collapse to
their no-illusion counterparts.
The effect of money illusion in this heterogeneous investor economy is to make the state
prices negatively depend on the price level. This is as in the single-investor case, and hence
much of our earlier discussion remains valid in this heterogeneous investor case. More interest-
ingly though, the equilibrium interest rate and market price of risk are stochastic, in contrast to
being constants in the single-investor case, and depend on the price level (via ˆδ). An important
implication is that the real short rate and realized inﬂation are negatively correlated under the
condition in property (ii), which holds for empirically reasonable parameters.12 The intuition
is that when the realized inﬂation (or price level) is higher, the money-illusioned investor’s
consumption decreases (Proposition 1(i)), decreasing his consumption share ˆδ. This in turn
brings the equilibrium closer to that in a normal investor economy for which the interest rate
is lower since in an inﬂationary environment (the condition in property (ii)), money illusion
makes future consumption “less valuable” (Proposition 2(i)), and hence increases the interest
rate. This leads to a negative correlation between the real short rate and realized inﬂation,
which is consistent with empirical ﬁndings in various previous studies (see Ang, Bekaert and
Wei (2008) and the references therein). The rich dynamics induced by the interaction between
the money-illusioned and normal investors have the potential to address other issues such as
the long-run inﬂation hedging properties of stocks and bonds. We leave this to future research.
Our analysis also offers some insights on the long-run properties of the economy. As
shown in equation (34), the long-run properties of the illusioned investor’s consumption share
depends on the long-run properties of the price level. In an inﬂationary environment with
μp > 1
2∥σp∥2, the price level converges to inﬁnity in the long run, implying that the illusioned
investor’s consumption share ˆδ converges to zero. That is, the illusioned investor disappears
in the long-run. Otherwise, if μp < 1
2∥σp∥2, the price level converges to zero in the long run,
implying that the illusioned investor dominates the market in the long run. The intuition is that
in an inﬂationary environment, the money-illusioned investor over-discounts future payoffs
and so saves too little for the future. As a result, the illusioned investor’s consumption share
12. The condition in property (ii) requires the expected inﬂation to be high enough relative to the consumption
and inﬂation volatilities, and typically holds in the data for empirically plausible relative risk aversions. Indeed,
according to the US quarterly data on price index and consumption during 1951–2003 (source: US Department of
Commerce, Bureau of Economic Analysis), μp = 0.034, ∥σp∥= 0.025, σ ⊤
D σp = 0.00025, the condition in property
(ii) holds for γ ∈[1, 148] and ˆδ ∈[0, 1].
© 2010 The Review of Economic Studies Limited


932
REVIEW OF ECONOMIC STUDIES
decreases over time and disappears in the long run and, vice versa, dominates in a deﬂationary
environment. Under reasonable parameter values (e.g. those in Figure 1), μp > 1
2∥σp∥2 holds,
implying that the money-illusioned investor’s wealth share will disappear in the long run.
However, this process is extremely slow. For the case of γ = 3, for example, it takes on
average around 100 years for the illusioned investor to lose half of his consumption share.
This is consistent with the ﬁndings of Yan (2008), who analyses a model with heterogeneous
beliefs and shows that it takes hundreds of years for an investor with a signiﬁcantly wrong
belief to lose half of his wealth share.
5. CONCLUSION
We provide a tractable continuous-time pure-exchange framework to understand the impli-
cations of the presence of money illusion in ﬁnancial markets. We develop a belief-based
formulation of money illusion and demonstrate an illusioned investor’s behaviour to be gen-
erally driven by the price level, in addition to real economic conditions in the economy. We
provide a full characterization of security prices and their dynamics in the ensuing equilibrium,
and demonstrate that, although money illusion only induces a small welfare loss, it has a sig-
niﬁcant impact on equilibrium prices, and that some of the empirical regularities can be better
understood in the context of money illusion. The basic setting readily extends to additionally
incorporate richer dynamics for pertinent processes and investor heterogeneity in the degree
of money illusion. In concurrent work we also generalize the current economic setting, where
the price level process is taken as given, to a dynamic monetary economy, and carry out the
analogous equilibrium analysis while simultaneously endogenously determining the inﬂation in
the presence of money illusion. We build on the nominal pricing models of Bakshi and Chen
(1996) and Basak and Gallmeyer (1999), and consider an illusioned investor who holds money
for the purpose of transaction services via a money-in-the-utility-function formulation. As in
current analysis, a money-illusioned investor’s real consumption and investment decisions are
affected by the price level. Hence, due to money illusion, the monetary authority can affect
the real side of the economy (e.g. real interest rates and market price of risk) through money
supply, a feature not possible under no illusion in our monetary model.
Our formulation of money illusion can be extended to further analyse the effects of money
illusion under different economic settings. One such generalization is to study the impact of
money illusion on macroeconomic variables (e.g. consumption and economy growth) in a pro-
duction economy. As shown in our monetary economy extension, due to money illusion, an
investor’s real consumption and investment choices are affected by money supply in equilib-
rium. This violation of money neutrality implies that money supply would potentially have a
large impact on the output and that money illusion could play an important role in the ﬂuc-
tuations of the aggregate economy and the monetary policy. Another generalization is to an
international setting, along the lines of Fisher’s (1928) original observation, that people tend to
think in terms of their own currency. It would then be of interest to investigate the implications
of this “currency illusion” on exchange rates and international portfolio choice, in addition to
the quantities analysed in the current paper. Finally, as an initial attempt to model money
illusion, our formulation only incorporates an investor’s bias towards nominal quantities in his
decision making. Survey and experimental studies, however, reveal additional considerations
as to the nature of money illusion (Shiller, 1997; Fehr and Tyran, 2001, 2007). For instance, in
their experiments, Fehr and Tyran (2007) ﬁnd that strategic uncertainty about other investors’
behaviour may play an important role in sustaining the impact of money illusion. Extending our
formulation to incorporate an investor’s consideration of other investors’ reaction to changes
in the price level may be a fruitful direction for future research.
© 2010 The Review of Economic Studies Limited


BASAK & YAN
EQUILIBRIUM ASSET PRICES AND INVESTOR BEHAVIOUR 933
APPENDIX: PROOFS
Proof of Proposition 1.
Using martingale techniques (Karatzas, Lehoczky and Shreve, 1987; Cox and Huang,
1989), the investor’s dynamic budget constraint (1) can be written as
E
	 ∞
0
ξ(t)c(t)dt

≤W (0).
(35)
Then, the necessary and sufﬁcient conditions for optimality of the consumption stream are
e−ρtc(t)−γ p(t)−δ = yξ(t),
leading to expression (9), with y solving (35) holding with equality and (9) substituted in. Properties (i)–(iii) follow
from equations (9)–(10) straightforwardly.
||
Proof of Proposition 2.
From the consumption choice (9) and the market clearing condition (11), we obtain

eρtξ(t)
−1/γ p(t)−δ/γ = D(t).
Solving for ξ(t) from the above expression yields (15). Equations (16)–(17) can be obtained by applying Itˆo’s lemma
to both sides of (15) and matching the drift and volatility terms. Properties (i) and (ii) are direct implications from
equations (15) and (16).
||
Proof of Proposition 3.
The no-arbitrage stock price is given by
S(t) =
1
ξ(t)Et
	 ∞
t
ξ(s)D(s)ds

.
(36)
Substituting (15) into the above expression and manipulating, we obtain
S(t) = D(t)
	 ∞
t
e−ρ(s−t)Et
p(s)
p(t)
−δ D(s)
D(t)
−(γ −1)
ds.
(37)
From the geometric Brownian motion assumption on D and p, we have
D(s) = D(t)e

μD−1
2 ∥σD∥2
(s−t)+σ⊤
D (ω(s)−ω(t)),
(38)
p(s) = p(t)e

μp−1
2∥σp∥2
(s−t)+σ⊤
p (ω(s)−ω(t)).
(39)
Substituting (38) and (39) into the conditional expectation in (37), we obtain
Et
 p(s)
p(t)
−δ D(s)
D(t)
−(γ −1)
= e
−

(γ −1)

μD−1
2 ∥σD∥2
+δ

μp−1
2 ∥σp∥2
(s−t)Et

eX(s)
,
(40)
where X(s) = −

(γ −1)σD + δσp
⊤(ω(s) −ω(t)) is normally distributed with mean 0 and variance ∥(γ −1)σD+
δσp
2 (s −t). We then have Et[eX(s)] = e
1
2 ∥(γ −1)σD+δσp∥2(s−t). Substituting this expression and (40) into (37), after
some manipulation, we obtain (19). Since the short rate is constant in this economy, the term structure is ﬂat, that is,
r(t, T) = r for all T. Properties (i) and (ii) are immediate.
||
Proof of Proposition 4.
Equations (7), (9) and (15) for ξ imply that cN(t) and c(t) are geometric Brownian
motions. Thus, substituting (7)–(10) into (21) and (22), we can explicitly evaluate the expectations and integrals
in the expressions of U N (W (0)) and U (W (0)). Substituting these into U N (W (0)(1 −k(δ))) = U (W (0)), after some
algebra, we can solve for k(δ), as stated in (24).
||
© 2010 The Review of Economic Studies Limited


934
REVIEW OF ECONOMIC STUDIES
Proof of Proposition 5.
In this richer setting, the objective function of the illusioned investor is as in (6), with
now the additional discounting parameter b being replaced by its stochastic counterpart b(t) ≡δ
t
 t
0 μp(τ)dτ −1
2δ(1 +
δ)
σp
2. We ﬁrst prove (27). Assumptions in (25) and (26) imply that
p(s) = p(t)e
 st

μp(τ)−1
2 ∥σp∥2
dτ+
 st σ⊤
p dω(τ),
(41)
μp (τ) = μp +

μp (t) −μp

e−β(τ−t) +
	 τ
t
e−β(τ−ℓ)σ ⊤
μpdω (ℓ) .
(42)
From (41), we obtain
Et

ln p(T)
p(t)

= Et
	 T
t

μp(τ) −1
2
σp
2

dτ

.
Substituting the above expression and (42) into (18), after some algebra, we obtain (27).
To compute the stock price, we ﬁrst need to compute the conditional expectation in (37). Substituting (38) and
(41) into the conditional expectation in (37) we obtain
Et
 p (s)
p (t)
−δD (s)
D (t)
−(γ −1)
= e
−

(γ −1)

μD−1
2 ∥σD∥2
−1
2 δ∥σp∥2
(s−t)Et

eY (s)
,
(43)
where
Y (s) = −δ
	 s
t
μp (τ) dτ −
	 s
t

(γ −1) σ ⊤
D + δσ ⊤
p

dω(τ).
(44)
Substituting (42) into (44), we obtain
Y (s) = −δ

μp(s −t) +

μp (t) −μp
 1 −e−β(s−t)
β

−δ
	 s
t
	 τ
t
e−β(τ−ℓ)σ ⊤
μpdω (ℓ) dτ −
	 s
t

(γ −1) σ ⊤
D + δσ ⊤
p

dω(τ).
(45)
From the interchangeability of Lebesgue and Itˆo integrals (Karatzas and Shreve, 1988, p. 209), we have
	 s
t
	 τ
t
e−β(τ−ℓ)σ ⊤
μpdω (ℓ) dτ =
	 s
t
	 s
ℓ
e−β(τ−ℓ)dτσ ⊤
μpdω (ℓ)
=
	 s
t
1 −e−β(s−ℓ)
β
σ ⊤
μpdω (ℓ) .
Substituting the above expression into (45), we obtain Y (s) which is normally distributed, and so Et[eY (s)] can
explicitly be evaluated. Substituting the explicit expression for Et[eY (s)] and (43) into (37), after some manipulation,
we obtain (28) with
f (μp(t)) =
	 ∞
0
eh(μp(t),s−t)ds,
where h(μp(t), s −t) is given by
h(μp(t), s −t) = −

ρ + (γ −1)

μD −1
2 ∥σD∥2 
−1
2δ
σp
2

(s −t) + Et[Y (s)] + 1
2 vart[Y (s)].
Clearly, f (·) is positive. Differentiating f (·), we obtain that f ′(·) < 0. Similar computations for the long bond yields
lead to (29) with
g(x) = γ μD −1
2γ ∥σD∥2 −1
2 δ
σp
2 −1
2
γ σD −δ(σp + 1
β σμp )

2
+ 1 −e−βx
β2x
σ ⊤
μp

δγ σD + δ2(σp + 1
β σμp)

−1 −e−2βx
4β3x
δ2 σμp

2
.
Properties (i)–(iv) are immediate from equations (28) to (29).
||
© 2010 The Review of Economic Studies Limited


BASAK & YAN
EQUILIBRIUM ASSET PRICES AND INVESTOR BEHAVIOUR 935
Proof of Proposition 6.
The necessary and sufﬁcient conditions for optimality for the two investors are
e−ρtc(t)−γ p(t)−1 = yξ(t),
e−ρtcN(t)−γ = yNξ(t),
where c and cN are the consumption processes of the illusioned and the normal investors, y and yN Lagrange
multipliers associated with the budget constraints of the illusioned and the normal investors. We set yN = 1 without
loss of generality since equilibrium is determined only up to a multiplicative constant.
Solving for the optimal consumption from the above conditions, we obtain
c(t) =

eρtyξ(t)
−1/γ p(t)−1/γ ,
(46)
cN(t) =

eρtξ(t)
−1/γ .
(47)
Substituting the above expressions into the market clearing condition c(t) + cN(t) = D(t), after some algebra, we
obtain (30). Applying Itˆo’s Lemma to (30), we obtain (31) and (32). From (46) and (47), we can easily verify that
c(t)/D(t) = ˆδ(t). Substituting (30) into the no-arbitrage stock pricing equation (36), we obtain (33).
Property (i) follows from (30), and equation (31) implies that dr(t)/dp(t) < 0 if the condition in property (ii)
holds, which leads to property (ii).
||
Acknowledgements. We are grateful to Bruno Biais (the editor) and three anonymous referees for valuable sug-
gestions. Special thanks are extended to one referee for the detailed, constructive suggestions that beneﬁted this work
greatly. We also thank Nick Barberis, James Choi, Ian Cooper, Wouter Denhaan, Stephan Dieckmann, Francisco
Gomes, Owen Lamont, Andreas Lofﬂer, Anna Pavlova, Stephen Schaefer, Astrid Schornick, Lucie Tepla, Raman
Uppal, Jessica Wachter and seminar participants at London Business School, Yale, Western Finance Association and
European Finance Association meetings, where an earlier version of this paper was presented, for helpful comments.
All errors are solely our responsibility.
REFERENCES
AKERLOF, G. (2002), “Behavioral Macroeconomics and Macroeconomic Behavior”, American Economic Review,
92, 411–433.
AKERLOF, G. and YELLEN, J. (1985), “Can Small Deviations from Rationality Make Signiﬁcant Differences to
Economic Equilibria?” American Economic Review, 75, 708–720.
ANG, A., BEKAERT, G. and WEI, M. (2008), “The Term Structure of Real Rates and Expected Inﬂation”, Journal
of Finance, 63, 797–849.
BAKSHI, G. and CHEN, Z. (1996), “Inﬂation, Asset Prices, and the Term Structure of Interest Rates in Monetary
Economies”, Review of Financial Studies, 9, 241–275.
BARBERIS, N. and THALER, R. (2003), “A Survey of Behavioral Finance,” in Constantinides, G., Harris, M. and
Stulz, R. (eds) Handbook of the Economics of Finance (Amsterdam: North-Holland) 1051–1121.
BARR, D. and CAMPBELL, J. (1997), “Inﬂation, Real Interest Rates, and the Bond Market: A Study of UK Nominal
and Index-Linked Government Bond Prices”, Journal of Monetary Economics, 39, 361–383.
BASAK, S. and GALLMEYER, M. (1999), “Currency Prices, the Nominal Exchange Rate, and Security Prices in a
Two-country Dynamic Monetary Equilibrium”, Mathematical Finance, 9, 1–30.
BASAK, S. and YAN, H. (2007), “Equilibrium Asset Prices and Investor Behavior in the Presence of Money Illusion:
A Preference-Based Formulation,” (SSRN Working Paper No. 623561).
BASU, S., MARKOV, S. and SHIVAKUMAR, L. (2005), “Do Financial Analysts Suffer from Inﬂation Illusion”
(Unpublished Paper, Emory University and London Business School).
BRUNNERMEIER, M. and JULLIARD, C. (2008), “Money Illusion and Housing Frenzies”, Review of Financial
Studies, 21, 135–180.
CAMPBELL, J. (2003), “Consumption-based Asset Pricing,” in Constantinides, G., Harris, M. and Stulz, R. (eds)
Handbook of the Economics of Finance (Amsterdam: North-Holland) 803–887.
CAMPBELL, J. and SHILLER, R. (2005), “Valuation Ratios and the Long-Run Stock Market Outlook: An Update,”
in Thaler, R. (ed.) Advances in Behavioral Finance, Vol. II (Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press) 173–201.
CAMPBELL, J. and VUOLTEENAHO, T. (2004), “Inﬂation Illusion and Stock Prices”, American Economic Review
Papers and Proceedings, 94, 19–23.
CHORDIA, T. and SHIVAKUMAR, L. (2005), “Inﬂation Illusion and Post-Earnings-Announcement Drift”, Journal
of Accounting Research, 43, 521–556.
© 2010 The Review of Economic Studies Limited


936
REVIEW OF ECONOMIC STUDIES
COCHRANE, J. (1989), “The Sensitivity of Tests of the Intertemporal Allocation of Consumption to Near-Rational
Alternatives”, American Economic Review, 79, 319–337.
COHEN, R., POLK, C. and VUOLTEENAHO, T. (2005), “Money Illusion in the Stock Market: The Modigliani–Cohn
Hypothesis”, Quarterly Journal of Economics, 120, 639–668.
COX, J. and HUANG, C. (1989), “Optimal Consumption and Portfolio Policies when Asset Prices Follow a Diffusion
Process”, Journal of Economic Theory, 49, 33–83.
FAMA, E. and FRENCH, K. (1988), “Dividend Yields and Expected Stock Returns”, Journal of Financial Economics,
22, 3–25.
FEHR, E. and TYRAN, J. (2001), “Does Money Illusion Matter?” American Economic Review, 91, 1239–1262.
FEHR, E. and TYRAN, J. (2007), “Money Illusion and Coordination Failure”, Games and Economic Behavior, 58,
246–268.
FISHER, I. (1928), The Money Illusion (Toronto: Longmans).
GENESOVE, D. and MAYER, C. (2001), “Loss Aversion and Seller Behavior: Evidence from the Housing Market”,
Quarterly Journal of Economics, 116, 1233–1260.
HESS, P. and LEE, B. (1999), “Stock Returns and Inﬂation with Supply and Demand Disturbances”, Review of
Financial Studies, 12, 1203–1218.
JOUINI, E. and NAPP, C. (2007), “Consensus Consumer and Intertemporal Asset Pricing with Heterogeneous
Beliefs”, Review of Economic Studies, 74, 1149–1174.
KAHNEMAN, D. (2003), “Maps of Bounded Rationality: Psychology for Behavioral Economics”, American Economic
Review, 93, 1449–1475.
KARATZAS, I., LEHOCZKY, J. and SHREVE, S. (1987), “Optimal Portfolio and Consumption Decisions for a
‘Small Investor’ on a Finite Horizon”, SIAM Journal of Control and Optimization, 25, 1157–1186.
KARATZAS, I. and SHREVE, S. (1988), Brownian Motion and Stochastic Calculus (New York: Springer-Verlag).
KEYNES, J. (1936), The General Theory of Employment, Interest and Money (New York: Macmillan).
LEONTIEF, W. (1936), “The Fundamental Assumptions of Mr. Keynes’ Monetary Theory of Unemployment”, Quar-
terly Journal of Economics, 5, 192–97.
LEROY, S. and PORTER, R. (1981), “The Present-Value Relation: Tests Based on Implied Variance Bounds”, Econo-
metrica, 49, 97–113.
LOFFLER, A. (2001), “A μ-σ-Risk Aversion Paradox and Wealth Dependent Utility”, Journal of Risk and Uncertainty,
23, 57–73.
MANKIW G. (1985), “Small Menu Costs and Large Business Cycles: A Macroeconomic Model of Monopoly”,
Quarterly Journal of Economics, 100, 529–537.
MIAO, J. and XIE, D. (2007), “Monetary Policy and Economic Growth under Money Illusion” (Unpublished Paper,
Boston University and HKUST).
MODIGLIANI, F. and COHN, R. (1979), “Inﬂation, Rational Valuation, and the Market”, Financial Analysts Journal,
35, 24–44.
PATINKIN, D. (1965), Money, Interest, and Prices, 2nd edn (New York: Harper and Row).
PIAZZESI, M. and SCHNEIDER, M. (2008), Inﬂation Illusion, Credit, and Asset Pricing, in Campbell, J. (ed.) Asset
Prices and Monetary Policy (Chicago: University of Chicago Press).
RAGHUBIR, P., and SRIVASTAVA, J. (2002), “Effect of Face Value on Product Valuation in Foreign Currencies”,
Journal of Consumer Research, 29, 335–348.
RITTER, J., and WARR, R. (2002), “The Decline of Inﬂation and the Bull Market of 1982–1999”, Journal of Financial
and Quantitative Analysis, 37, 29–61.
SHAFIR, E., DIAMOND, P. and TVERSKY, A. (1997), “Money Illusion”, Quarterly Journal of Economics, 112,
341–374.
SHARPE, S. (2002), “Reexamining Stock Valuation and Inﬂation: The Implications of Analysts’ Earnings Forecasts”,
Review of Economics and Statistics, 84, 632–648.
SHILLER, R. (1981), “Do Stock Prices Move Too Much to Be Justiﬁed by Subsequent Changes in Dividends?”
American Economic Review, 71, 421–436.
SHILLER, R. (1997), “Public Resistance to Indexation: A Puzzle”, Brookings Papers on Economic Activity, 1,
159–228.
SIMON, H. (1978) “Rationality as Process and as Product of Thought” American Economic Review, 68, 1–16.
SVEDSATER, H., GAMBLE, A. and GARLING, T. (2007), “Money Illusion in Financial Decision Making: The
Inﬂuence of Nominal Representation of Share Price”, Journal of Socio-Economics, 36, 698–712.
YAN, H. (2008), “Natural Selection in Financial Markets: Does It Work?” Management Science, 54, 1935–1950.
© 2010 The Review of Economic Studies Limited


