The Microgeography of Housing Supply*
Nathaniel Baum-Snow, University of Toronto
Lu Han, University of Toronto
December 8, 2019
Abstract
Housing supply elasticities are central parameters required for quantitative analysis ad-
dressing a wide range of questions in urban and real estate economics. Despite huge variation
across neighborhoods within metro areas, researchers often employ metro area level supply
elasticity estimates to analyze neighborhood level phenomena due to lack of neighborhood
level estimates. Moreover, there exists scant quasi-experimental evidence about the compo-
nents of new housing services supply. This paper reports housing supply elasticity estimates
for most U.S. urban neighborhoods and demonstrates the importance of accounting for neigh-
borhood level heterogeneity within metro areas. Supply elasticity estimates for housing ser-
vices are decomposed into those for housing units on newly developed land, already devel-
oped land and the intensive margin of supply. Consistent with housing production function
estimates from the literature, estimated neighborhood level elasticities of the supply of hous-
ing services with respect to price is between 2.5 and 4.3 on average across urban census tracts.
The average price elasticity of quantity of new units supplied is 0.2 to 0.9, with about one-third
of this response due to redevelopment. Supply elasticity increases with CBD distance, in part
because of increasing neighborhood land availability from reductions in the fraction already
developed. Tracts with ﬂat land also exhibit more elastic supply. Conditional on census tract
level measures of land unavailability, analogous metro area measures do not signiﬁcantly inﬂu-
ence tract level supply estimates. Identiﬁcation comes from variation in labor demand shocks
to commuting destinations, as aggregated using an urban economic geography model. Aggre-
gation of neighborhood level supply elasticities yields metro area supply elasticities that are
correlated with but smaller than those reported in Saiz (2010).
*We thank Camilo Acosta, Rolando Campusano and Ian Herzog for excellent research assistance.
1


1
Introduction
Housing supply conditions vary considerably both between and within urban areas. While the
existing literature documents large differences in housing supply elasticities between cities (Saiz,
2010; Cosman, Davidoff, & Williams, 2018), little empirical evidence exists on how supply elas-
ticities differ within cities as a function of distance to the center, land availability, building den-
sities and zoning restrictions. Knowledge of housing supply elasticities at a microgeographic
scale is central to understanding spatial variation in booms and busts within housing markets
(Glaeser, Gottlieb, & Tobio, 2012; Guerrieri, Hartley, & Hurst, 2013), growth patterns at urban
fringes (Glaeser, Gyourko, & Saks, 2005), consequences of neighborhood speciﬁc labor or housing
demand shocks (Calabrese, Epple, & Romano, 2011; Couture, Gaubert, Handbury, & Hurst, 2019)
and implications of place-based policy interventions such as targeted neighborhood investment,
land use restrictions, and transportation infrastructure investments (Busso, Gregory, & Kline, 2013;
Hanson, 2009). The main aim of this study is to empirically characterize housing supply elasticities
for all residential neighborhoods in 306 U.S. metro areas. We also decompose supply responses
of total housing services into units and quality components. Within the units component, we fur-
ther decompose into redevelopment of existing developed areas versus newly developed land.
We demonstrate how housing supply conditions vary by neighborhood location, available land,
topography and regulation. Finally, we consider aggregation of neighborhood housing supply
elasticities to the metro area level. In this aggregation exercise, a number of pitfalls emerge, which
highlight the difﬁculty of interpreting metro area level elasticities in many contexts.
Average supply elasticity estimates are in the 0.2 to 0.9 range for housing units and in the 2.5
to 4.3 range for housing services across neighborhoods in our data, with about one-third of the
unit supply response coming through land redevelopment. These supply responses grow with
distance from central business districts (CBDs) such that unit and housing services supply elas-
ticites at CBDs are on average 0.2 and 3.8 respectively, growing to 1.5 and 4.3 respectively at urban
fringes. In addition, supply responds in expected directions to the fraction of neighborhood land
area that is already developed and has steep slopes. Tracts in areas with more stringent regula-
tion, as measured by Floor-Area-Ratio restrictions (Brueckner & Singh, 2018), are less responsive
in supply. Resulting estimates range from 0.1 to 1.5 for the 5th and 95th percentile neighborhoods
for unit supply and 2.2 to 5.2 respectively for housing services supply. While we face some sta-
2


tistical power constraints for isolating variation in supply elasticities between metros as functions
of land developed fraction, topography, and regulation, we do not ﬁnd evidence that metro level
factors matter for local supply elasticities conditional on neighborhood topography and land de-
velopment patterns. Using data from the US and Switzerland respectively, Orlando and Redfearn
(2018) and von Ehrlich, Schöni, and Büchler (2018) ﬁnd even smaller unit supply elasticities at the
municipal level, though these papers also ﬁnd that supply elasticities increase with CBD distance.
Supply elasticity estimates for housing services are quantitatively consistent with housing pro-
duction function estimates in the literature. These indicate approximately Cobb-Douglas form
with a land share of 0.2-0.35 (Ahlfeldt & McMillen, 2014; Combes, Duranton, & Gobillon, 2019;
Albouy & Ehrlich, 2012), implying housing services supply elasticities of 2-4. Our tract level unit
supply estimates are mostly smaller than those found in Saiz (2010) for the metro level. One rea-
son is that aggregation from micro to macro elasticities incorporates substitution patterns across
neighborhoods in residents’ neighborhood demand system. As neighborhoods become stronger
demand substitutes, a shock affecting (for example) labor market opportunities in one location
affects housing demand in a wider range of areas as households are more willing to substitute
across residential options to take advantage of lower housing prices in some places. This opens
up more opportunities for supply elastic neighborhoods to be included. The result is aggregation
to macro supply elasticities that are greater than tract level elasticities. However, we note that
macro elasticities are speciﬁc to the nature of the demand shock. This motivates us to explore
aggregation using estimated demand parameters and shocks generated by a speciﬁc place based
policy in an urban market access model similar to that in Tsivanidis (2018) (in progress).
We approach recovery of neighborhood level housing supply elasticities as the fundamentally
reduced form problem of identifying coefﬁcients in regressions of changes in tract level hous-
ing quantities on changes in a tract level house price index.
The central challenge is to ﬁnd
an exogenous source of variation that shifts neighborhood level housing demand but not local
fundamentals including construction costs. This identiﬁcation challenge is particularly daunting
for recovering within-city supply elasticities, as most shocks that impact housing demand in one
neighborhood would also affect housing demand for nearby neighborhoods, making it difﬁcult
to trace out housing supply in any speciﬁc neighborhood. To achieve identiﬁcation, similar to
Severen (2019) we use Bartik (1991) type labor demand shocks to commuting destinations from
3


each residential location as the fundamental source of variation in housing demand shocks, which
feed through the commute time matrix to generate exogenous variation in changes in house prices
in residential locations. These labor demand shocks depend on 1990 industry shares in commut-
ing destinations interacted with national industry-speciﬁc employment growth rates after year
2000.
One practical challenge is in how to sensibly aggregate these labor demand shocks across all
commuting destinations from each residential tract. To do this, we follow Tsivanidis (2018) and
nest our reduced form estimation problem in an urban spatial equilibrium model in which resi-
dential demand in neighborhood i depends on “resident market access” (RMAi), a coherent mea-
sure of access to employment from tract i. RMAi amounts to the commute time discounted sum
of employment in each commuting destination from location i. Labor demand shocks in each
potential commuting destination are used to generate a simulated counterpart to the change in
RMAi that, conditional on appropriate controls, is purged of shocks to tract housing productivity
or changes in other unobserved tract level housing supply factors.
Beyond contributing to the housing production function and supply elasticity literatures, we
hope our supply estimates will be useful both for policy evaluation and to help improve under-
standing of patterns of neighborhood change. For example, our micro scale estimates provide
a supply-side explanation for the recent ﬁnding that there was more price growth in the center
of metro areas in the 2002-2007 housing boom (Glaeser et al., 2012; Genesove & Han, 2013). On
the other hand, the greater house price ﬂuctuations at metro area edges where housing is the
most land intensive (Zhou & Haurin, 2010) seem most likely driven by demand ﬂuctuations. A
burgeoning literature examines policies and phenomena that only directly impact a few neighbor-
hoods in cities in the context of general equilibrium urban models. These studies typically cali-
brate micro elasticities to macro estimates from the literature. Our evidence shows that this choice
can lead to misleading conclusions about incidence. In particular, landowners in the supply in-
elastic neighborhoods nearer to CBDs may enjoy most of the gains or bear most of the burdens
even if at the metro area level housing supply is elastic. We thus hope that our supply elasticity
estimates are useful for improving quantitative evaluation of various policies that are targeted to
particular neighborhoods.
As an illustrative example, we explore the incidence of the recently implemented Opportunity
4


Zone (OZ) program, which was part of the “Tax Cuts and Jobs Act” (TCJA) of 2017. This program
rebates capital gains taxes back to investors for real estate and other investments that occur in cer-
tain low income census tracts. We use our neighborhood level supply elasticity estimates coupled
with structurally estimated housing demand parameters from our economic geography model to
recover the impacts of the OZ program on consumer and producer surplus, and its deadweight
loss at the tract level. Because of such variation in supply elasticities, we ﬁnd a huge variation
in these impacts across neighborhoods, even within metro areas. In downtown neighborhoods,
where housing supply is relatively inelastic, we show that this program generates large gains for
developers and investors and small gains for households (in progress).
2
Data
For this analysis, we construct a data set that brings together information from a number of differ-
ent sources. Using the Zillow ZTRAX transactions, assessments and historical assessments data
ﬁles, we build quality-adjusted house price growth between 2000 and 2010 for census tracts in 306
metro areas using both repeat sales and hedonic approaches. We use the same data sources to
construct a rich set of housing supply measures including changes in housing stocks, new con-
struction, quality-adjusted changes in housing stocks, ﬂoorspace, and redevelopment through
both renovation and teardowns, all at the tract level. Local labor demand conditions are mea-
sured using the place of work and journey to work tabulations in the 1990 and 2000 U.S. Censuses
of Population and the 2006 and 2010 LODES data plus census tract aggregate data from 1990-2010.
Finally, we use remote sensing information on land cover in 2001 to measure baseline tract devel-
opment intensity, topography and prevalence of wetlands. All data are keyed to 2000 deﬁnition
census tracts, covering 63,897 tracts in 306 metro areas (with some overlap across metros). Below
we describe in more detail how we process each data source.
2.1
Housing Prices
Our primary source for housing data is the Zillow ZTRAX data sets (Zillow, 2017). These come
in the form of ﬁles for transactions, most recent assessments before 2017 and prior assessments.
These data cover more of the U.S. over time from 2000 to 2010, going from coverage of at least
5


part of 267 metro areas and about two-thirds of sample tracts to the full study area by 2010, with
a few exceptions noted below. Because of incomplete coverage, particularly in year 2000, we
supplement Zillow data with decennial Census data, as is explained in further detail below.
Transactions information is constructed from information in local Recorders of Deeds and in-
cludes the sale price, location and some property attributes. To ﬁll out property attributes, we
merge it with the most recent assessment data. We primarily use this data set to construct price
indexes at the census tract level. For the purpose of building home price indexes, we only use
arm’s length transactions for resale or new construction. This excludes deed transfers involving
non-transactions such as foreclosure by banks or quitclaim deeds. We include all residential units,
including single family houses, semi-detached and condominiums. We consider only homes that
are bought by individual buyers and do not examine institutional buyers. We always exclude
homes that sell more than 9 times over our sample period. Our main use of the ZTRAX data is to
build home price indexes at the census tract level.
A well-known challenge for constructing home price indexes is that homes are heterogeneous
in observed and unobserved attributes. The goal of the indexes is to hold quality constant, elim-
inating all price variation due to differences in attributes. Leveraging the richness of assessment
data on home characteristics, we use census tract-region-year ﬁxed effects aHI
irt from the following
hedonic regression to build our Hedonic Index (HI).
ln Phirtm = aHI
irt + ρHI
m + XhirtmβHI + eHI
hirtm
Here, h indexes homes in census tract i, region r, year t and month m. Xhirtm includes a rich set
of characteristics (including unit type, rooms, bedrooms, kitchens, bathrooms, heating and AC,
elevator, ﬁreplace, water, sewer, roof type, age, ﬂoorspace and lot size). Month of sale ﬁxed effects
ρHI
m ﬂexibly account for seasonality in market conditions. Inclusion of controls for region ﬁxed
effects throughout the main empirical analysis below ensures that comparisons are always made
across locations within metro regions. Due to incomplete coverage in the ZTRAX data set and our
inclusion of tracts with at least 10 valid home sales in relevant sample years, this index covers only
about two-thirds of our full tract sample.
To ﬁll out the tract sample with some measure of house prices for 2000 and 2010 and to facilitate
looking at pre-trends, we also build a lower quality hedonic price index using self-reported data
from the 1990 and 2000 Censuses of Housing and the 2008-2012 ACS aggregated to the census
6


tract level. These are tract residuals aC
irt from the following cross-sectional regressions estimated
separately for 1990, 2000 and 2010:
ln PC
irt = XC
irtβC
t + aC
irt.
Here, PC
irt is the average self-reported value of owner-occupied homes in the tract and included
in XC
irt are fractions of the tract’s owner-occupied units in various building types, with various
numbers of bedrooms, and of various vintages. While it is of lower quality, this index covers all
census tracts in our sample regions.
Hedonic indexes do not account for unobserved heterogeneity in quality across homes. To
account for this, we also use the ZTRAX data set to build a repeat sales index at the tract-year
level. For this index, we exclude any sales fewer than 180 days after the prior sale. Inclusion of
home ﬁxed effects αRS
hir in the following regression purges individual home heterogeneity that is
ﬁxed over time. Tract-year ﬁxed effects aRS
irt from this regression are our repeat sales index.
ln Phirtm = aRS
irt + ρRS
m + αRS
hir + eRS
hirtm,
After homes are renovated, we treat them as new homes for the purpose of constructing this index.
We recognize that this index may suffer from a more biased sample than the hedonic index and
incorporate unwanted capitalization of unobserved home improvements.
The top block in Table 1 presents summary statistics about changes in these three home price
indexes for the primary estimation sample used for the empirical work. The Zillow hedonic price
index growth is 0.89 on average across tracts relative to 0.95 for repeat sales index growth during
the 2000-2006 periods. For 2000-2010, average growth rates are 0.37 and 0.45 respectively, reﬂect-
ing the 2007-2008 housing market crash. Correlations between the two Zillow indexes is 0.63 for
the 2000-2010 period but the correlation with the growth in the Census price index is only about
0.10 for both Zillow based indexes. Nevertheless, we will see below that all three price indexes
generate similar housing supply elasticity estimates.
2.2
Satellite Data
We use remote sensing information to measure tract level topography and land development in-
tensity. Topography is one of the most important factors inﬂuencing construction costs and ulti-
7


mately housing supply. Land cover information is used to help determine whether new housing
is built on previously undeveloped land.
We use three remote sensing data sets to obtain land cover and slope. First, the “Scientiﬁc In-
vestigations Map 3085” is derived from the US Geological Survey’s National Elevation Database.
The Map 3085 data uses raster information on slope and elevation range for all 30X30 meter land
pixels within a 0.56 km radius (1 sq. km) of each pixel to classify it into one of nine categories that
describe how ﬂat or hilly the surrounding area is. We aggregate these categories into “ﬂat plains”,
“ﬂat non-plains” and “hilly”. Flat plains have a slope of less than 8% in more than half of these
nearby pixels and an elevation range of less than 15 meters in this 1 km sq region. On average
41% of tract land area is ﬂat plains. Flat non-plains have a slope of less than 8% in more than half
of pixels within 1 sq km and a larger elevation range. On average, 45% of tract land area is ﬂat
non-plains. Remaining land is hilly. We take elevation range within 1 km of each pixel directly
from the US Geological Survey National Elevation 1/9-1/3-1-2 arc second Database.
Development costs not only depend on topographical conditions but also the initial developed
state. We construct tract developed fraction from the National Land Cover Database (NLCDB) for
2001 and 2011. In particular, the NLCDB provides for each 30X30 meter cell one of 4 categories of
development (0-19%, 20-49%, 50-79%, 80-100%). We construct the square meters of land in each
tract by density of development and aggregate to impute developed fraction for the land area of
each census tract. The average tract in our sample had 38% of land area developed in 2001 and
39% in 2011.1
We aggregate the resulting tract level data to construct various land unavailability measures
for each metro area. To be consistent with Saiz (2010), we calculate the fraction of area within 50
km of the CBD of each region that is undevelopable due to a steep slope (e.g. mountains), water
or wetlands (e.g. oceans, lakes, etc) and that is developed. We also build variants of these two
measures instead aggregating to the metro area level and within 50% or 100% radii from the CBD
to the furthest tract in the metro area. As these measures are highly correlated, our estimation
results are not sensitive to the choice of aggregation.
1As satellite data has been documented to measure changes in land cover with high error rates ((Torchiana, Rosen-
baum, Scott, & Souza-Rodrigues, n.d.)), we only use levels of this variable in the empirical analysis.
8


2.3
Housing Quantities
We construct six measures of housing quantity changes to cover different aspects of supply re-
sponses. As most of the existing literature on housing supply focuses on units in the housing
stock, we begin with this measure. However, we also aim to explicitly measure new construction
and to quality adjust the stock, which the detailed Zillow assessment data allows for. However,
since the Zillow data has incomplete coverage at the beginning of the sample, most of our stock
measures rely on 2000 census data for the base year.
To organize our classiﬁcation of stock measures, we begin by noting that the total quantity of
efﬁciency units of housing services in census tract i, He f
i , is the number of housing units Hi times
the average quantity of services provided per housing unit Si. Differentiating, the growth rate in
the quantity of housing services over time can be written as follows:
d ln He f
i
= dHR
i
Hi
+ dHU
i
Hi
+ dHT
i
Hi
+ d ln Si
(1)
We separate out our measures of the total change in housing services in tract i into these three
components. New construction is broken into that on existing developed land dHR
i
Hi and on unde-
veloped land dHU
i
Hi . We call the former “redevelopment”. The third term is negative and captures
teardowns and the housing units that fully depreciate away. Finally, the intensive margin com-
ponent d ln Si is a residual that includes partial depreciation, remodeling and the quality of new
construction units relative to that for units in the base period.
2.3.1
Housing Units and Total New Construction
The simplest quantity measures are the 1990-2000 and 2000-2010 growth rates in tract level hous-
ing occupied unit stock constructed using the 100% count Decennial Census data dHi
Hi . We use
occupied units instead of all units to be consistent with Saiz (2010) and because vacant units may
be under-reported or not habitable. While it has the best neighborhood coverage, this measure is
not an ideal new supply measure as it includes teardowns and depreciation.
We separate out new construction dHR
i +dHU
i
Hi
using information on building age in the ACS and
ZTRAX data sets. In the 2008-2012 ACS tract aggregates, we observe the number of units in the
stock built between 2000 and 2009. Following the ZTRAX historical assessment data forward, we
9


record the earliest year built after 2000 for every housing unit in the ZTRAX data set.2 Beause of
incomplete ZTRAX coverage in the earlier part of our sample and to be consistent across measures,
we use the occupied housing stock reported in the 2000 census as a base for both measures. As
the ACS is based on a 5% sample of occupied units while ZTRAX in principle covers the universe
of new construction, the ZTRAX measure is more accurate.
Summary statistics for these three measures are presented in the second block of Table 1. Here
we see that for the 2000-20009 calendar years, the average number of new construction units across
tracts in our sample, counted using both the ACS and Zillow data, are very close at about 235,
or about 11 percent growth over the base in 2000. The average census growth number for the
same period, which incorporates fully depreciated or torn down units, is 181 or 7 percent growth.
Pairwise correlations between these three measures are all over 0.91.
2.3.2
Redevelopment New Construction Units
Redevelopment (dHR
i ) is an important component of housing supply, as it may have a different
cost structure than new construction on undeveloped land. Moreover, in cities where building
density is already high, builders can only increase housing supply through redevelopment. Urban
redevelopment can take many forms, including teardowns and inﬁlls, which became widespread
during the housing boom of the 2000s. At the peak, the number of demolitions and teardowns
in the Chicago metropolitan area approached 40% of sales in 2005 (McMillen & O’Sullivan, 2013).
In New York City, annual teardown activity increased almost eight-fold from 1994 to 2004 and
peaked in 2005 (Been, Ellen, & Gedal, 2009).
Lacking data on demolition permits or inﬁll construction, we quantify the units built through
redevelopment by imputing the number of units built on already developed land in the calendar
years 2000 through 2009 as follows. We assume that each tract’s stock of units reported in the 2010
census is uniformly spatially distributed across the tract’s developed area as measured using the
2011 satellite data. We subtract off the number of ACS reported new construction units 2000-2009
that is imputed to be on newly developed land using this assumption from 2010/2011 about the
spatial distribution of housing units in each tract. We infer that the remainder of 2000-2009 new
2Some rental buildings only report total square footage and do not break out the number of units. In these cases, we
impute the number of rental units using the average square footage of units in other rental and condominium buildings
of similar size in the tract.
10


construction is from redevelopment. If this remainder is negative, we assign 0 units to redevelop-
ment. Our measure indicates that about 40% of new construction in an average tract in our sample
is redevelopment.
2.3.3
Efﬁciency Units of Housing
In the context of the model developed below, the tract efﬁciency units of housing services He f
i ,
including the intensive margin of supply, is the most conceptually relevant measure. If recently
built housing units are larger than those built in early 2000s, then using either the difference in
stocks or new construction would underestimate the true housing supply response. Moreover, we
wish to have some way of capturing upgrades to the existing stock.3
We construct two such efﬁciency units meausres. First, we simply use the total ﬂoorspace
of assessed housing units in each tract, as reported in the Zillow Historical Assessments data.
Second, we use the Zillow data to construct a tract level quality-adjusted housing quantity index.
We start by constructing weights for each housing attribute using transactions data from 2006
only. We choose 2006 because this is the ﬁrst year with near universal coverage in our sample
area. For all census tracts with at least 10 transactions, we estimate coefﬁcients in the following
hedonic regression:
ln Phir = XhirβW + ρW
m + ϵir + ηhirm
.Here, Xhir includes property age, age squared, ﬂoorspace, ﬂoorspace squared and home type
dummies and ϵir are census tract ﬁxed effects. βWis a vector of hedonic weights that indicate the
amount of housing services provided by each attribute in 2006. These attribute prices that are
common across locations and are applied in subsequent years. We take the universe of (assessed)
housing units in each tract and year and calculate He f
hirt = exp(Xhirt ˆβW). The stock of housing
services in tract i at time t is then He f
irt = ∑h He f
hirt. This measure is highly correlated with total
ﬂoorspace.
3The challenge of separating between the price of housing per unit and the quality-adjusted amount of housing is
well-established in the housing production literature Ahlfeldt and McMillen (2014); Combes et al. (2019); “Housing
Productivity and the Social Cost of Land-Use Restrictions” (n.d.). As noted in Epple, Gordon, and Sieg (2010), “houses
are viewed as differing only in the quantity of service they provide, with housing service being homogenous and
indivisible.”
11


2.3.4
Average Unit Quality
Our ﬁnal measure of housing quantity change is the (residual) intensive margin of housing sup-
ply holding the number of units ﬁxed d ln Si. Renovation is an important supply substitute for
new construction. Choi, Hong, and Scheinkman (2014) report that American home improvement
expenditures increased from about 1% of gross domestic product (GDP) ($229 billion) in 2003 to
2% of GDP ($326 billion) in 2007.4 Despite its importance, renovation has often been ignored in
the literature on housing supply (DiPasquale, 1999). We capture this important dimension (both
renovation of existing units and upsizing in newly built units) by taking the difference between
the quality-adjusted housing quantity change and the census-measured change in housing units.
That is, d ln Si = d ln He f
i −dlnHi.
2.4
Population, Employment and Commutes
The Census Transportation Planning Package (CTPP) reports tabulations of 1990 and 2000 census
data by residential location, work location and commuting ﬂow. 1990 CTPP geography deter-
mines our study regions. The 1990 CTPP assigns microgeographic units the size of census tracts
or smaller to “regions”, which roughly correspond to metropolitan areas. These regions can over-
lap. Commuting ﬂows and times are reported for pairs of census tracts, trafﬁc analysis zones or
block groups within each region only. Employment by place of work, sex and 18 industry groups
are reported for these same geographic units. For Connecticut and New Jersey, which are fully
contained in one large 1990 CTPP region each, we develop new regions that each have a 25 km
radius around each CBD in each state. We map 1990 CTPP geography to 2000 deﬁnition census
tracts by overlaying their digital maps and using land area as allocation weights. The 2000 CTPP
is more spatially comprehensive and thus can be restricted to cover only 1990 region deﬁnition
geography. The result is a total of 63,896 2000-deﬁnition census tracts in 306 regions.
For most regions, central business district (CBD) locations are taken as the centroid of the set
of census tracts reported as being in the CBD in the 1982 Economic Census. Remaining CBD
assignment is done by eyeballing a location that is near city hall and the most historical bank
4According to Bendimerad (2007), Americans spent $280 billion on home remodeling in 2005, and this number was
projected to increase at 3.7% in real terms by 2015. Plaut and Plaut (2010) further report that almost half of American
home owners made some renovations during 2003-2004.
12


branches in the region’s largest city.
Empirical implementation requires information on the commute time between each pair of
census tracts in each region. Because they are based on only a sample and ﬂows of fewer than
5 sampled workers are suppressed, commutes are not observed between about one-half of tract
pairs in 1990 and two-thirds of tract pairs in 2000. To ﬁll in the rest, we develop a forecasting model
based on tract relative locations. In particular, we predict origin-destination commute times using
out of sample predictions from a regression of log travel time on region ﬁxed effects, log travel
distance, log CBD distance of workplace and log CBD distance of residence. See Baum-Snow,
Hartley, and Lee (2019) for details.
For 2006 and 2010, we use the LEHD origin destination employment statistics (LODES) data
to measure employment by place of work. As this data set does not have commute times, we
maintain year 2000 commute times for these later years.
We take census tract aggregates for 1970-2010 from the Neighborhood Change Database sup-
plemented with some Summary Tape File 4 variables from 1980. We use these variables to measure
aggregate outcomes and to control for pre-treatment trends in observables.
2.5
WRLURI and FAR
The Wharton Residential Land Use Regulatory Index (WRLURI) is constructed from a battery of
survey questions sent to a weighted random sample of municipalities nationwide in the US in
year 2005. The index is expressed in population-weighted standard deviation units. While larger
urban municipalities were sampled with higher probability, a large number of smaller suburban
municipalities were also included in the sample. 261 of the 306 regions in our sample have at least
one municipality surveyed. However, the municipality of the CBD is sampled in only 164 of our
sample regions. Overall, our data includes 2,373 municipalities and 30,526 tracts with WRLURI
information.
We incorporate data on Floor Area Ratio (FAR) restrictions on residential development from
the municipalities of Atlanta, Boston, Chicago, Denver, Los Angeles, New York, San Francisco,
and Washington.5 For each residential land parcel, local zoning maps provide the residential FAR.
We use the average of these within each census tract, weighted by parcel area.
5Most of these data were generously provided by Ruchi Singh (Brueckner & Singh, 2018).
13


2.6
Estimation Sample
Our analysis requires reliable information on housing quantities. To this end, we only include
census tracts with Zillow unit counts that are close to 2010 100% census counts. In particular,
we exclude all tracts from the estimation sample for which our 2010 Zillow unit stock is more
than 20% above or below the occupied housing stock reported in the 2010 census. Unless the
2000 Zillow stock is within 20% of its 2000 census counterpart, we also exclude tracts in non-
disclosure states for which Zillow reports they have incomplete coverage.6 For these tracts, we
are particularly concerned about under-measurement of 2000-2010 new construction. As a result,
our sample is cut in about half, from 63,896 tracts in 306 regions to 31,242 tracts in 275 regions.
Beyond this initial sample restriction, we lose about 7,000 additional observations because we
lack ZTRAX based price index data for year 2000. Primary estimation sample sizes are reported
in the top two blocks of Table 1.
For building instruments and for structural estimation of the model, we also need information
on labor market opportunities that are relevant to each sample census tract. Because the CTPP
and LODES data sets fully cover our sample area, these data sets do not introduce any sample
constraints for our analysis.
3
Conceptual Framework
The main object of our analysis is to estimate housing supply elasticities that are allowed to differ
ﬂexibly across neighborhoods and regions. While we use the decomposition in (1), developed
further below, to study different components of supply, we intentionally impose as little structure
as possible on the form of the housing supply function.
As such, we focus on estimating γir in the following reduced form expression. Hs
ir denotes any
of the quantity measures listed in (1). Pir is the observed price per unit of housing services in our
data. To accommodate ad-valorem taxes, we can think of the price developers receive per unit of
housing sold Ps
ir as Pir(1 −tr). Region ﬁxed effects mr thus capture potential tax wedges and other
6These states are Alaska, Idaho, Kansas, Louisiana, Mississippi, Missouri, Montana, New Mexico, North Dakota,
Texas, Utah, and Wyoming.
14


region-speciﬁc factors that inﬂuence construction costs.
ln Hs
ir = mr + γir ln Pir + uir
(2)
In the empirical work, uir includes supply shifters and the error and we allow γir to depend on
tracts’ observed heterogeneity, including initial building density, geographic features and distance
to the central business district. Because of the durability and immobility of housing, (2) is likely
to hold with a greater γir for price growth than for price declines Glaeser and Gyourko (2005).
Largely for this reason, our analysis focuses on demand shocks in the 2000-2006 period. During
this time, price growth was positive in over 98 percent of the tracts in our sample, more so than
for any other time period in our data.
In this section, we ﬁrst lay out relevant microfoundations for housing supply in our context
and then we lay out the theory behind the procedure we use to construct demand shocks necessary
to pin down consistent estimates of γir.
3.1
A Theory of Neighborhood Housing Supply
While microfoundations are not required to use our supply elasticity results, they do help to un-
derstand magnitudes of our empirical results reported below. Indeed, conceptual development
beyond simple aggregation of individual housing production functions is needed to justify our
differing price elasticity estimates for different components of supply. To ﬁx ideas about what our
different elasticity measures deliver and how to combine them, here we sketch a model of housing
supply to neighborhood i.
We begin with market structure and technology and then add land availability and redevel-
opment constraints. We assume that the amount of housing services on each parcel Si is supplied
by a developer in a perfectly competitive market. Developers combine land and capital with pro-
ductivity that can differ across neighborhoods. Each building site s in neighborhood i has a ﬁxed
lot size Mi and a heterogeneous ﬁxed development cost of fis. fis captures development fees and
permitting costs plus land preparation costs for development, be it demolition and environmental
remediation of existing construction or grading and draining of undeveloped land. The ﬁxed de-
velopment lot size assumption reﬂects land assembly frictions that are likely to bind over the 5-10
year time horizon that is the focus of our empirical analysis (Brooks & Lutz, 2016). Demand con-
ditions and the cost of capital determine the intensity of new development on any given plot in a
15


neighborhood. The price per unit of housing services Pi is the same for all parcels in neighborhood
i.
Following is a representative developer’s proﬁt associated with building on parcel s in neigh-
borhood i.
pro f itis = PiSi(Pi) −fis −C(Si) −p( fis)
Here C(Si) is the variable cost and p( fis) is the endogenous parcel acquisition price. Imposing 0
proﬁts and perfect competition (marginal cost pricing), we have
p( fis) = C(Si)(d ln C(Si)
d ln S
−1) −fis.
Because of the ﬁxed lot size, the variable cost function is likely convex and so d ln C
d ln S > 1. The
ﬁrst term reﬂects the intuition that higher housing prices imply higher marginal costs and greater
proﬁts absent land costs. The second term reﬂects capitalization of ﬁxed development cost into
the parcel price.
Consistent with housing production function estimates in the literature, we proceed assuming
Cobb-Douglas production with a land share of α and productivity ρi. This implies a parcel-speciﬁc
housing services supply function of Si(Pi) = ρiP
1−α
α
i
and that p( fis) = αρiP
1
α
i −fis.7 Si can be
thought of as ﬂoorspace installed on a newly developed land parcel in tract i. If the tract has a
high price, the developer may ﬁnd it optimal to partition that ﬂoorspace into multiple units.
Each tract has a CDF of the ﬁxed costs of development Fi(x) that depends on tract character-
istics. Normalizing the opportunity cost per unit of land to 0, this means that the fraction of land
developed in each tract is Fi(αρiP
1
α
i ). The resulting aggregate housing supply function in tract i is:
He f,s
i
= ρiP
1−α
α
i
MiFi(αρiP
1
α
i )
(3)
This function reﬂects the intensive and extensive margin of supply. The ﬁrst part, ρiP
1−α
α
i
, is the
intensity of development on each developed plot. The second part, MiFi(αρiP
1
α
i ), is the total de-
veloped land area in the tract. Differentiating, the implied housing supply elasticity is
d ln He f,s
i
d ln Pi
= 1 −α
α
+ fi(αρiP
1
α
i )
Fi(αρiP
1
α
i )
ρiP
1
α
i ,
(4)
7ρi = ι
α−1
α (1 −α)
1−α
α κ
1
α
i Mi where ι is the cost of capital and κi is tract housing productivity.
16


which quantiﬁes the intensive and extensive margin responses respectively. With α estimated to be
about 0.33 in the literature (Combes et al., 2019), this expression reﬂects a baseline supply elasticity
of about 2 holding the amount of developed land ﬁxed and an additional component reﬂecting the
extensive margin associated with developing additional land or land redevelopment. For tracts
in which the ﬁxed cost of developing marginal land parcels is higher (the CDF Fi(x) rises more
slowly with x), the extensive margin component of the supply elasticity is smaller.8
Now that we have laid out the basis for intensive and extensive margin responses, we adjust
the model to incorporate all of the margins of response we observe in the data. First, we explicitly
break the extensive margin component into redevelopment (plus teardowns) and development
of undeveloped land. Second, we capture the fact that ﬂoor-area ratio (FAR) restrictions may
constrain the quantity of housing services developed per parcel to be below the preferred amount
of ρiP
1−α
α
i
. Finally, we consider depreciation and multi-unit buildings.
To capture the idea that redevelopment may be costlier than development of new land, we
decompose Fi(x) into a component for redevelopment and a component for undeveloped land:
Fi(x) = MR
i
Mi FR
i (x) + MU
i
Mi FU
i (x), in which we think of FR
i (x) as ﬁrst-order stochastically dominating
FU
i (x). Since in any initial period, all housing units are on developed land by deﬁnition, using the
notation in (1) we have dHR,s
i
+dHT,s
i
Hi
= f R
i (αρiP
1α
i )
FR
i (αρiP
1α
i )
ρiP
1
α
i and dHU,s
i
Hi
= f U
i (αρiP
1α
i )
FU
i (αρiP
1α
i )
ρiP
1
α
i . That is, because of
variation in the cost of redevelopment, the supply of redeveloped units (net of teardowns) may
exhibit a different price response to that of new developments on previously undeveloped land.
Extending (4) with the identity (1), we have the following uniﬁed decomposition that forms
the basis for our reduced form empirical work.
d ln He f,s
i
d ln Pi
= d ln Si
d ln Pi
+ dHR,s
i
/Hi
d ln Pi
+ dHT,s
i
/Hi
d ln Pi
+ dHU,s
i
/Hi
d ln Pi
(5)
The redevelopment elasticity dHR,s
i
/Hi
d ln Pi
may be smaller than the other new units elasticity dHU,s
i
/Hi
d ln Pi
because of additional teardown and land remediation costs. We assume that variation in depreci-
ation of existing units across tracts in a metro area is unrelated to changes in prices.
We model the tract-level FAR constraint Di as Si(Pi)
Mi
≤Di. This constraint potentially impacts
8If Fi(x) is distributed Frechet with tract-speciﬁc dispersion parameter Ti,
fi(αρiP1/α
i
)
Fi(αρiP1/α
i
) = Ti(αρiP
1
α
i )−1−Ti and the
extensive margin component of the supply elasticity is Tiα−1−Tiρ−Ti
i
P−
Ti
α
i
. Here we see explicitly how the extensive
margin of supply may depend on tract topography and developed fraction if Ti depends on these objects.
17


both the extensive and intensive margins of development. On the extensive margin, a binding
constraint inhibits some new construction response to a price increase. In addition, a binding FAR
causes the intensive margin response to be 0.9
We recognize that this simple model best describes the construction of single family homes,
or one housing unit per land parcel. This type of construction makes up over 90 percent of new
construction units in our sample area in 2000-2010. However, in some high price areas the inten-
sive margin component d ln Si reﬂects both space per unit and the number of units in multifamily
dwellings. We ignore depreciation because we think it is unlikely to differ by price changes.
3.2
Housing Demand
We incorporate housing supply conditions that are allowed to differ across locations within cities
into a version of the quantitative urban model developed by Ahlfeldt, Redding, Sturm, and Wolf
(2015) and extended by Tsivanidis (2018). While tracing out housing supply functions is ultimately
about estimating reduced form impacts of housing demand shocks on housing quantities and
prices, this part of the theory is helpful in operationalizing this goal in three ways.
First, the model shows how to leverage variation across space within cities in local labor de-
mand shocks to isolate exogenous variation in housing demand shocks across census tracts. The
model structure facilitates recovery of causal linkages from labor demand shocks to housing de-
mand shocks, as ﬁltered through the commuting time matrix. We show how housing demand
conditions in each census tract i can be summarized through “Resident Market Access” RMAi,
which is the sum of commute time discounted skill prices available to residents of tract i. This
object can be readily calculated with available data on the numbers of workers and residents in
each tract. Shocks to skill prices in commuting destinations are reﬂected as shocks to RMAi.
Second, the model provides a way to convert the quantity of housing services, which we ob-
serve only noisily, to residential population, which we observe accurately. The cost of relying on
the model to make this conversion for us is that it depends on assumptions about preferences over
housing and requires joint estimation of model parameters that govern labor and population sup-
ply conditions to residential and work locations respectively. For these reasons, we show results
9In particular, with the FAR constraint d ln He f,s
i
d ln Pi
=
fi(
Mi Di
κi
Pi−ι
h Di
κi
i
1
1−α Mi)
Fi(
Mi Di
κi
Pi−ι
h Di
κi
i
1
1−α Mi)
MiDi
κi
Pi .
18


both from the housing market portion of the model, for which we measure housing quantities di-
rectly, and from more complete estimation. Both of these sets of results will use the same sources
of identifying variation. However, even the more isolated housing market estimation results rely
on using the structure of the model to partial out the equilibrium impacts of labor demand shocks
on local prices. Because these shocks impact housing demand conditions in multiple locations
simultaneously, the model is essential for delivering a scaling of relative housing demand shifts
across tracts that result from these shocks. This motivation is line with Monte, Redding, and
Rossi-Hansberg (2018)’s observation that two identical productivity shocks hitting different cities
may impart different treatment effects on city level outcomes because of differences in inter-city
commuting and trade linkages.
Third, the model makes clear the conditions required for census tract level “Bartik” shocks to
represent a valid source of econometric identiﬁcation. These shocks are calculated by predicting
2000 to 2006 tract level growth in employment by industry using 1990 tract level employment
shares by industry with national industry speciﬁc employment growth outside of the metro area
in question. Originally proposed by Bartik (1989, 1991), this source of variation has been used
at the metro area level in Saiz (2010), Notowidgdo (2013) and Diamond (2015) among many oth-
ers. This and Baum-Snow et al. (2019) are among the ﬁrst papers to use this source of variation
for identiﬁcation at the sub-metro level of geography. To help us do this in a sensible way, we
explicitly introduce industries k into the model.
Finally, the model provides structure that can be used to aggregate neighborhood housing
supply functions to the metro area given an array of shocks to neighborhood fundamentals and to
perform welfare analysis of place based policies.
3.2.1
Setup
While our main empirical work uses data for 275 metropolitan areas, our empirical focus is on
within-metro area variation in housing supply elasticities. As such, our model is of a single metro
area speciﬁed with an eye toward exploiting within metro area variation in labor demand shocks.
The model features a continuum of identical workers indexed by ω who choose residential
tract i, work tract j and industry of work k within the metro area. They receive productivity
shocks zijkω over commute origin-destination and industry triplets and preference shocks viω over
19


residential locations. We think of them as ﬁrst choosing their residential location, anticipating the
distribution of productivity shocks from which they draw, with these shocks only revealed after
committing to a residential location. In practice, the shocks primarily serve to smooth things over
such that the model can generate data in which people with different utility realizations can have
the same expected utility.
The indirect utility person ω receives from living in tract i and commuting to j and working in
industry k is:
vijkω = viωBizijkωwjk
P1−β
i
eκτij
(6)
where Bi is a local amenity, wjk is the price of a unit of skill in commuting destination j and
industry k, Pi is the price of one unit of housing services in i and eκτij is the fraction of time spent
commuting for those living in i and working in j. In the data, we observe the price Pi in year 2000
and beyond and the commuting time τij in 1990 and 2000. The productivity shock zijω is drawn
from the Frechet distribution with shape parameter ε.
Fz(zijkω) = e−z−ε
ijkω, ε > 1
(7)
Following Tsivanidis (2018) and Couture et al. (2019), we also introduce the nested preference
shock over residential locations viω. This shock is also distributed Frechet but with shape param-
eters η and φ. This nested structure allows individuals to have different elasticities of substitution
in demand between neighborhoods within versus between municipalities, where municipalities
are indexed by m and i(m) refers to neighborhood i in municipality m.
Fv(viω) = exp[−∑
m
[∑
i(m)
v−η
iω ]−φ
η ], φ > 1, η > 1
(8)
Incorporation of this second shock allows the model to generate situations in which people would
choose to reside in tracts with lower expected utilities as calculated based on
Bizijkωwjk
P1−β
i
eκτij only. As a
practical matter, it also delivers a convenient expression for mean income net of commuting cost
in each tract, as is derived below. If the distribution functions for the two shocks are identical and
η = φ = ε, the utility shock becomes redundant and this model reduces to one more similar to
that in Ahlfeldt et al. (2015).
20


3.2.2
Resident Market Access
The Appendix walks through the model in more detail to show that RMAi ≡∑k ∑j

wjke−κτijε
is a convenient summary measure of the access to employment opportunities from residential
neighborhood i. In particular, many objects in the model are constant elasticity in RMAi and it
can be readily calculated with available data.
Before the productivity shock is revealed, the expected income (wage net of commuting cost)
yi associated with residing in tract i is
yi = Γ(1 −1
ε )(RMA)
1
ε
i .
(9)
As a result, population supply to tract i is given by
πi = λ[ ∑
i´∈m(i)

Bi′Pβ−1
i′
RMA
1
ε
i′
η
]
φ
η −1

BiPβ−1
i
RMA
1
ε
i
η
.
(10)
This expression reﬂects the attractiveness of neighborhood i’s amenities and labor market oppor-
tunities, as balanced against its housing cost. This attractiveness is relative to the attractiveness to
other neighborhoods in the municipality m(i), captured by the object inside the summation, and
the overall attractiveness of all neighborhoods in the metro region 1/λ.
Equilibrium commute ﬂows, calculated as πij = πij|iπi, follow a standard gravity equation in
commute time τij.
ln πij = ag
i + bg
j −(κε)τij
(11)
That is, a regression of log commute probabilities between each origin-destination pair on origin
and destination ﬁxed effects plus commute time τij recovers an estimate of the parameter bundle
κε.
Labor supply to tract j is given by
Lj = λ∑
k
h
wε
jk
i
FMAj,
(12)
where “Firm Market Access” FMAj is a measure of the access to workers enjoyed by ﬁrms in tract
j. Plugging into the deﬁnition of RMAi, we have the following system of equations.
FMAj
= ∑
i
e−κετijπi
RMAi
(13)
21


RMAi
= ∑
j
e−κετijLj
FMAj
(14)
Using data on employment Lj, residents πi, the parameter cluster κε and commute times τij, we
can calculate FMAj and RMAi by solving this system.
RMAi can be readily calculated (jointly with FMAi) using our tract level data on employment,
population, commuting ﬂows and commuting time. We observe spatial distributions of employ-
ment and population in 1990, 2000, 2006 and 2010 and commute ﬂows and times in 1990 and 2000.
We estimate bεκ using separate ﬂow-weighted commuting gravity regressions like (11) with origin
and destination ﬁxed effects in 2000 for each metropolitan region.10 Because we do not observe
tract-tract commute times after 2000, we hold commute times constant at 2000 times for the later
years. This yields direct measures of RMAi as in (14) for 2000, 2006 and 2010.
An individual who lives in i and works in j in industry k has housing demand of (1 −β) yi
Pi
from Cobb-Douglas preferences. We assume that all sites in each residential location i are perfect
demand substitutes, justifying the uniform price per unit of housing services Pi. Adding up, the
log aggregate housing demand in tract i is thus
ln He f,d
i
= ln ρHD + 1
ε ln(RMAi) + ln πi −ln Pi.
(15)
This object is expressed in terms of units of housing services. It is increasing in RMA conditional
on population πi because greater RMAi is associated with greater income for tract residents. Con-
ditional on Pi, equilibrium tract residential population πi is also increasing in RMAi, as seen in
(10). Thus, shocks to RMAi result in housing demand shocks. This is the key insight used for
identiﬁcation in the empirical work.
The reduced form empirical work uses the housing supply equation (2) in tandem with the
housing demand equation formed by substituting (10) into (15). Credible identifying variation in
ln Pi must come from a component of RMAi that is cleansed of variation in housing productivities
and lot sizes. Section 3.4 lays out how we isolate such variation using a simulated version of
RMAi based on Bartik type labor demand shocks in commuting destinations for residents of tract
i.
10Across the 306 regions in our sample, the median estimated elasticity of commuting ﬂow with respect to one-way
commuting minutes in 2000 is -0.04, the minimum is -0.11 and the maximum is -0.01. In addition, estimates of εκ are
about twice as large in big cities like New York and Los Angeles than in small cities like Bryan-College Station, TX. This
reﬂects the fact that households in bigger cities are willing to travel longer to reach work destinations.
22


3.3
Equilibrium
We write down equilibrium conditions primarily with an eye toward showing how to use local
housing demand shocks to identify of tract-speciﬁc housing supply elasticities γi. Quantitative
analysis and aggregation at the end of the paper also makes use of the neighborhood demand
system deﬁned by the model. The following equilibrium conditions are useful in this regard as
well.
Combining conditions governing population supply to residential tracts (10), labor supply to
work tracts (12) and imposing housing market clearing yields conditions describing equilibrium
tract population and house prices. Differentiating the population condition over time yields the
following structural equation.
d ln πi =
γi + 1
γi + 1 + η(1 −β)
η
ε (1 −1 −β
γi + 1)d ln RMAi + vπ
m + uπ
i
(16)
This equation incorporates an intuitive positive relationship between growth in employment op-
portunities and tract population. This relationship is stronger if housing supply in tract i is more
elastic and/or if there is less dispersion in idiosyncratic preferenes over locations (η is larger).
In this equation, vπ
m is a municipality ﬁxed effect that captures common population trends in all
tracts in municipality m that come through their correlation in neighborhood choices delivered
by the outer nest in preferences over neighborhoods. The error term uπ
i is a function of shocks
to amenities and housing productivity in tract i. Mathematical details are in the appendix. We
use (16) below as a basis for structural estimation of η, recognizing that identifying variation in
d ln RMAi must be uncorrelated with tract level shocks to amenities and housing productivity for
successful identiﬁcation.
Substituting for (16) in housing demand (15), setting it equal to housing supply (2), solving for
price and differentiating yields the growth rate in tract house price, expressed as follows.
d ln Pi =
1
ε(γi + 1) +
1
γi + 1 + η(1 −β)
η
ε (1 −1 −β
γi + 1)d ln RMAi + vP
m + uP
i
(17)
This equation shows, as is intuitive, that positive shocks to employment opportunities get capital-
ized into home prices. The amount of capitalization is of course decreasing in the housing supply
elasticity γi and in the dispersion of amenity draws within municipality m, an object which is
negatively related to η. Changes in housing productivity, average lot size and the local amenity Bi
23


show up in the error term uP
i . Because RMAi itself depends on quantities and prices throughout
the region, it is also a function of these objects. So, to restate, our empirical objective must be to
pick out variation in d ln RMAi that are uncorrelated with local innovations to housing productiv-
ity (costs) and lot sizes.
Finally, the model delivers the following implicit equation which describes the relationship
between change in d ln RMAi and municipality level aggregates of tract population growth d ln πi.
∑
i(m)
si[1 + φ(1 −β)
1 + γi
]d ln πi −Λ −φ
ε ∑
i(m)
[si(1 −1 −β
1 + γi
)]d ln RMAi = um
(18)
In this equation, si is the base year share of municipality m’s population living in tract i. As φ rises,
dispersion in preferences across municipalities falls. As a result, positive shocks to RMA in any
neighborhoods within m result in more rapid population growth in this municipality. (18) is the
estimation equation we use below to recover estimates of the preference parameter φ.
4
Empirical Implementation
Our main estimation equation amounts to the differenced counterpart to the simple tract level
supply equation (2).
∆ln Hs
ir = θr + Xirδ + γir∆ln Pir + eρir
(19)
Observations are for tract i in metro region r. To allow for observed heterogeneity in supply
elasticities, we parameterize γir to depend on metro region and tract-speciﬁc observables Z1
r and
Z2
ir.
γir = Z1
r γ1 + Z2
irγ2
(20)
As is detailed in Section 2, these sources of heterogeneity are topography, land use regulation and
regulatory burden.
The ﬁrst two terms in (19) are included for identiﬁcation reasons. Fundamental to our empir-
ical strategy is inclusion of metro region ﬁxed effects θr. Their inclusion ensures that we compare
different neighborhoods in the same labor market for identiﬁcation. Robustness checks include
these ﬁxed effects interacted with 2-2.5 km CBD distance rings. In tract characteristics Xir, our
main speciﬁcation includes lagged demographic attributes, a quadratic in CBD distance and con-
trols for tract-speciﬁc labor demand conditions that we worry may spill over into housing supply
24


factors. Our controls for 1990 and 2000 tract demographic characteristics account for potential
inﬂuencers of the tract regulatory environment that may be correlated with the instruments we
lay out below. The CBD distance controls holds constant any potential spatial trends in price
growth that are related to costs and are useful given the stronger 2000-2010 labor demand growth
in suburban areas. 1990 and 2000 Census rent and price indexes help to account for decadal mean
reversion in home price growth. Finally, 1990 employment and a tract-speciﬁc Bartik labor de-
mand shock for the 2000-2006 (explained below) ensures that our IV implementation is only using
variation from outside of tract ir for identiﬁcation.
4.1
OLS Results
Table 2 presents basic OLS relationships between our various measures of post-2000 home quan-
tity changes and contemporaneous price growth. Given that the 2007-2010 period saw mostly
declining housing demand and therefore may not be not a good setting for estimating housing
supply, we include a speciﬁcation that focuses on the 2000-2006 period. In the ﬁrst row, we see
negative relationships between Census Hedonic price growth and quantity growth. Remaining
rows, which are for our two Zillow price indexes, show small positive coefﬁcients of up to 0.02
for quantity measures in housing units and only up to 0.12 for our quality-adjusted quantity mea-
sure. Such small (or negative) housing supply elasticities seem implausible and help to motivate
our search for more convincing identifying variation in prices.11
The implausibly low relationships between the housing price growth and quantity growth
point to two identiﬁcation challenges in estimating housing supply. First, neighborhoods that ex-
perience stronger demand shocks may follow with unobserved changes in housing regulation in
part in order to cope with these demand shocks - a classical endogeneity problem discussed ex-
tensively in Davidoff (2016). To the extent that this phenomenon happens dynamically, it could
generate the negative observed relationship between price and quantity growth. If endogenous
positive supply shifts after 2000 loosen housing development restrictions in response to demand
shocks from the 1990s, observed OLS relationships will trace out demand curves and be nega-
tive. Such a story would justify the negative serial correlation in decadal price growth seen in the
11Ouazad and Ranciere (2019) ﬁnd similarly small OLS relationships between price growth and quantity growth for
the San Francisco metro region.
25


data at the tract level. One might also be concerned that positive productivity shocks outside of the
construction sector boost both local housing demand through higher household earnings and con-
struction costs at the same time. The result is inward shifts in housing supply that are correlated
with outward shifts in housing demand. Moreover, our price index measure, while constructed
as carefully as possible, is sure to be a noisy measure of the true price of housing services. Me-
chanical mean reversion in decadal house price growth that could reﬂect such measurement error
would lead to a classic attenuation bias problem.
The broad message is the possibility for a local unobserved history to drive both relative price
declines and more construction, inducing a downward bias in OLS. Thus a valid identiﬁcation
strategy needs deal with the classical endogeneity concern of simultaneity in demand and supply
by ﬁnding variation in local housing demand shocks across neighborhoods that are similar ex-
ante. To resolve this issue, we must isolate a source of tract-speciﬁc housing demand shocks
which are uncorrelated with supply factors. This is the role of our instrument, which we develop
next.
4.2
Instrument Construction
We need a source of identifying variation in home price growth that driven by tract level housing
demand shocks and is unrelated to shocks to local construction costs or housing productivity. To
see where this can come from, consider the following tract level inverse housing demand equation
from the model.
ln Pi = ˜ρHD +
φ/η−1
1+η−ηβ ln ∑i´∈m(i)

Bi′Pβ−1
i′
RMA
1
ε
i′
η
+
1
1+η−ηβ
1+η
ε
ln(RMAi)
−
1
1+η−ηβ ln Hd,e f
i
+
η
1+η−ηβ ln Bi The fact that the housing price in tract i is increasing in RMAi
through impacts on housing demand is intuitive. Labor demand conditions relevant to neighbor-
hood i, as summarized in RMAi, represent a key source of variation in house prices. However,
any component of RMAi that is correlated with tract housing productivity is endogenous to hous-
ing supply. Indeed, through its codetermination with FMAi, RMAi depends structurally on tract
population which itself depends on tract housing productivity. As such, we develop instruments
that pick out components of d ln RMAi that are likely orthogonal to shocks to productivity or other
factors that inﬂuence local construction costs.
To build instruments, we start with (13) and (14) as a basis for calculating a simulated ver-
26


sion of d ln RMAi that plausbily excludes shocks to tract housing productivity and its correlates,
denoted ∆ln
g
RMAi. This simulated instrument serves a dual purpose. First it is a reduced form
housing demand shock that drives exogenous variation in tract level house price growth, as rep-
resented above. Second, it is a predictor of the structural object d ln RMAi that is unrelated to tract
level shocks to local amenities or housing productivities. The latter use will allow us to recover
estimates of structural parameters.
Instead of using actual employment in all commuting destinations in these calculations, we
use the employment predicted by national growth rates and initial industry composition in each
tract to solve for
g
RMAi, after evenly scaling up the residential population of each tract to maintain
labor market clearing and allowing us to solve jointly for
g
FMAj. For components of instruments,
we impose 1990 commute times and initial employment shares by industry and use estimates of
εκ for 2000. We exclude all tracts within 2 km of origins in order to reduce the likelihood that
nearby industry composition could be related to trends in tract productivity. For example, tracts
near a concentration of construction employment may be subject to secular changes in shocks to
construction productivity that would show up as part of the instrument.
In particular, we calculate the year 2000 component g
RMA
2000
i
of our main instrument is calcu-
lated as:
g
RMA
2000
i
= ∑
j
e−bεκτ90
ij 1(disij > 2km) ∑
k
L90
jk [E2000
r′(j)k/E1990
r′(j)k]
g
FMA
2000
j
(21)
g
FMA
2000
j
= ∑
i
e−bεκτ90
ij 1(disij > 2km)π90
i
" ∑
j
∑
k
L90
jk [E2000
r′(j)k/E1990
r′(j)k]
∑
j
L90
j
#
g
RMA
2000
i
(22)
In these expressions, τ90
ij is the reported or forecast commute time from i to j in the 1990 CTPP. bεκ
is estimated separately for each region in year 2000 using gravity regressions of log reported com-
mute ﬂows on commute times and origin plus destination ﬁxed effects using 2000 CTPP data.12
Distances from residential to work locations disij are calculated using tract centroids. Employment
in industry k in work location j, L90
jk , is measured from the 1990 CTPP. E2000
r′(j)k and E2000
r′(j)k are the 2000
and 1990 nationwide employment in industry k excluding the region of tract j, respectively. That
12Details of these estimates are reported in (Baum-Snow et al., 2019).
27


is, ∑
k
L90
jk [E2000
r′(j)k/E1990
r′(j)k] captures the predicted amount of employment that would exist in tract j if
1990 employment by industry grows at national rates to year 2000.
∑
j
∑
k
L90
jk [E2000
r′(j)k/E1990
r′(j)k]
∑
j
L90
j
is a constant
that captures the population growth rate needed to match the aggregate simulated employment
in the region in year 2000. The 2006 component of the instrument is calculated analogously, with
E2000
r′(j)k in (21) and (22) replaced by E2006
r′(j)k.
The log difference in
g
RMAi for 2000-2006, ∆ln g
RMAi, is our main instrument for ∆ln Pi as
measured for both the 2000-2006 and 2000-2010 time periods. We build our instrument for the
2000-2006 period only as this is the time period for which ﬁrst stage predictive power is strongest,
as we show below.
4.3
Instrument Validity
The fundamental source of identifying variation used is the standard tract level “Bartik” (1991)
type shocks in each employment location, written out as follows.
Bartikjr = ∑
k
Emp90
jk
∑k Emp90
jk
[ln E06
r′(j)k −ln E00
r′(j)k]
(23)
A prerequisite for the spatial aggregation of such shocks into ∆ln
g
RMAi to successfully predict
∆ln RMAi is for the tract level counterparts to successfully predict tract level employment growth.
We choose this time interval rather than 2000-2010 because of the stronger available identiﬁcation
during this boom period. The 2006-2010 period was associated with employment declines that are
not well predicted by Bartik instruments.
Table 3 presents evidence that our underlying identifying variation can successfully predict
tract level employment growth. It presents regressions of 2000-2006 or 2000-2010 tract employ-
ment growth in tract jr on Bartikjr and controls for 1990 employment level, past demographic
composition of tract residence, CBD distance and metro region ﬁxed effects. This is a sort of tract
level ﬁrst stage regression which gets aggregated in the ﬁrst stage of our main analysis. We control
for past employment to isolate employment growth due only to variation in industry composition.
Past demographic and CBD distance controls account for potentially differing labor supply con-
ditions. Results indicate that we can plausbily isolate labor demand shocks at the tract level. A
one-percentage point increase in the Bartik shock predicts a 0.2% increase in 2000-2006 tract em-
28


ployment and a 0.6% increase in 2000-2010 tract employment. Inclusion of 2-2.5 km CBD distance
ring ﬁxed effects interacted with metro region does not affect these conclusions.13
One challenge we face when estimating the housing supply equation is that house price growth
is negatively serially correlated across decades. The ﬁrst two columns of Table 4 show this pat-
tern. Also note the positive serial correlation in quantity growth, which likely reﬂects serially
correlated positive demand shocks. Finally, note that quantity growth begets subsequent price
declines. Commensurate with our discussion of the OLS results above, these patterns suggest
that there could be local unobserved history that drives both relative price declines and more con-
struction, inducing a downward bias in an OLS estimation of housing supply. One legitimate
potential concern is that our instrument ∆ln
g
RMAi may be correlated with such unobserved his-
tory. We hope that results in the ﬁnal two columns of Table 4 allay such concerns. They show that
1990-2000 price and quantity growth cannot predict subsequent growth in simulated RMA (our
instrument). This suggests that IV estimates are unlikely to suffer from the sort of selection bias
that we discuss above. Moreover, results in Table A1 show that our instrument does not predict
1990-2000 housing price growth for four sets of control variables and it does not predict 1990-2000
quantity growth for our primary speciﬁcation.
The top left panel in Table 5 presents the relationship between ∆ln g
RMA and ∆ln RMA for
2000-2006. It shows signiﬁcant estimated elasticities of 0.5-0.7 that are robust to the speciﬁcation
used. This is a necessary prerequisite for ∆ln g
RMA to predict ∆ln P in (19) as an instrument.
The next three blocks show ﬁrst stage relationships between ∆ln g
RMA and our three primary
measures of ∆ln P. First stage coefﬁcients are strong and robust to the different speciﬁcations used.
With metro area ﬁxed effects, ﬁrst stage coefﬁcients are not signiﬁcantly affected by inclusion or
exclusion of lagged demographic and housing market controls, corroborating evidence from Table
4 that they are uncorrelated with these variables. Smaller ﬁrst stage coefﬁcients for the 2000-2010
relative to the 2000-2006 period reﬂects the fact that the 2007-2010 period mostly saw housing
market declines.
The bottom two blocks in Table 5 show strongly positive reduced form relationships between
our instrument and 2000-2006 and 2000-2010 Zillow new construction. We note that while these
reduced form quantity responses are slightly larger over this longer time period, the two are not
13Results are also robust to lagging the demographic tract controls by one additional decade.
29


signiﬁcantly different. We retain the longer 2000-2010 time horizon for two reasons. First, we have
higher quality information about some housing quantity measures for 2010 than for 2006. Second,
as discussed further below, the intensive margin responses do change from 2006-2010 and we ﬁnd
it important to incorporate these into the analysis. Ratios of reduced form to ﬁrst stage coefﬁcients
from Table 5 preview the full IV results presented in the following section.
Overall, we ﬁnd that changes in simulated resident market access (∆ln g
RMA) strongly predict
nearby employment growth, home prices, and thereby housing demand growth. Moreover, they
are not correlated with pre-trends in house prices conditional on appropriate controls. These
ﬁndings provide reassuring support for the use of ∆ln g
RMA as a valid instrument in estimating
housing supply elasticities.
5
Main Results
In this section, we present our main reduced form housing supply estimates, estimating (19) by IV,
and explore their heterogeneity as a function of CBD distance, initial year development intensity,
topography, and regulation.
5.1
Uniﬁed Supply Elasticity Estimates
To start, Table 6 presents uniﬁed regressions of housing quantity growth on house price growth,
with ∆ln g
RMA as an instrument for ∆ln P using the same speciﬁcation as the OLS regressions
reported in Table 2. To ensure the robustness of the results, we use three measures of house price
growth: hedonic price growth based on the Census data; hedonic price growth based on the Zillow
data; and repeat sales price growth based on the Zillow data. And we show results using just
region ﬁxed effects in Panel A and with region-ring ﬁxed effects in Panel B. As discussed further
in Section 2.3, we also explore seven measures of house quantity changes: 2000-2006 or 2000-
2010 new construction based on the Zillow data; 2000-2009 new construction based on the ACS;
the 2000-2010 change in housing units based on census data; the 2001-2011 increase in ﬂoorspace
and quality-adjusted housing units based on Zillow data; 2000-2010 increase in housing units
through redevelopment only based on Zillow and satellite data. The top panel controls for the
metropolitan area ﬁxed effects, while the bottom panel further controls for the CBD distance rings
30


within metropolitan area ﬁxed effects. The combination of different price and quantity measures,
along with different ﬁxed effects, yields 40 supply elasticity estimates in total. Equation (5) shows
how to decompose the quality-adjusted elasticity into components.
Before discussing the estimates, we highlight a few observations. First, unlike small and in-
signiﬁcant estimates from the OLS regressions, the estimated coefﬁcients in Table 6 are positive
across all speciﬁcations with magnitudes that are in line with other supply elasticity estimates
from the literature. This is consistent with our narrative that OLS relationships between quantities
and prices in part reﬂect movement along demand rather than supply curves. Second, estimated
quantity responses to each measure of price changes are not signiﬁcantly different, though quality
adjusted measures in Columns 5 and 6 have large standard errors. Third, controlling for CBD dis-
tance ring ﬁxed effects interacted with metro area (Panel B) yields similar though somewhat larger
estimates than using metro area ﬁxed effects only. We note that the source of identifying variation
changes when including region-ring ﬁxed effects. In particular, more variation is available within
suburban rings where housing supply elasticities are larger – a result we show explicitly below.
The fact that Table 6 reports local average treatment effects means that these estimates are not nec-
essarily indicative of average supply elasticities across urban tracts nationwide. Indeed, we show
below that average supply elasticities are somewhat larger.
Comparisons of results in Columns 1 and 2 show the utility of allowing for longer adjustment
periods. Over the longer time period, our estimated elasticity of new unit supply with respect
to price more than doubles from 0.2 to 0.5. As seen in Table 5, this is primarily because of the
more attenuated longer run price response, which reﬂects the 2007-2009 housing bust. Across
the Zillow and ACS measures of unit construction, housing supply elasticity estimates are very
stable (columns 2 and 3). The estimated elasticity for the census change (column 4) is not signiﬁ-
cantly different from the other two, even though this measure incorporates the negative impacts
of teardowns and full depreciation. This indicates that price shocks have little impact on these
two negative margins of response.
In columns 5 and 6, we report quality-adjusted housing supply elasticities for the 2000-2010
period. These estimated elasticities are much larger than the unit supply elasticities shown in
columns 2-4, at 2.6-3.8. Based on these estimates, we conclude that housing quality is an impor-
tant margin of response to price changes. This can come through construction of higher quality
31


(larger) new units or the renovation of existing units. Indeed, it is clear that treating housing units
as homogenous misses an important segment of supply and that our supply model reasonably
approximates the intensive margin of supply.14 The implication is that renovations and repairs
are quite elastic with respect to price, contrary to DiPasquale (1999). Comparing the estimated γs
in column 5 with those in column 4, we ﬁnd that renovation and upsizing account for over 80% of
the total supply increase. While these estimates may seem surprisingly large, they are consistent
with the observations that almost half of American homeowners renovated their homes Plaut and
Plaut (2010) and that total renovation expenses reached $326 billion in 2007 Choi et al. (2014).
Column 7 reports estimated elasticities for the number of new units constructed 2000-2010 on
land that was already developed in 2001. Comparing with results in columns 2 and 3, we ﬁnd that
at least one-third of newly built homes are through redevelopment of already-developed land,
consistent with the ﬁndings in the urban literature that neighborhood renewal is largely driven
by the deterioration and subsequent redevelopment of the existing housing stock (e.g. Rosenthal
(2018); Brueckner and Rosenthal (2009)). The smaller estimated redevelopment elasticity supports
the conjecture that redevelopment is costlier than development of new land.
5.2
Tract Level Heterogeneity
5.2.1
Unit Supply
The local average treatment effect tract-level supply estimates in Table 6 mask substantial variation
across neighborhoods. This section presents how tract-level housing supply elasticities vary as a
function of distance to CBD, land availability, topographical features, and land use regulations.
Table 7 repeats the IV regressions in column 2 of Table 6 Panel A with the addition of a set of
interactions between price growth and tract-level factors that may inﬂuence supply. Price growth
is constructed using the repeat sales index for columns 1-6 and the hedonic index for columns
7-12. All speciﬁcations include CBD distance, CBD distance squared, an indicator for being over
14Empirical work on the housing production function dates back to Muth (1964). The estimated land share in the
recent literature ranges from 0.10 for Centre County, PA (Yoshida, 2016), to 0.14 for Alleghany County, PA (Epple,
Gordon and Sieg, 2010, to 0.35 for France (Combes et al., 2016), to 1/3 for the U.S. average housing market (ranging
from 0.11 to 0.48 in low to high-value areas, as reported in Albouy and Ehrlich, 2012). Ahlfeldt and McMillen (2014)
provide convincing empirical support for the Cobb-Douglas functional form as a reasonable approximation to the
housing production function.
32


two-thirds of the way from the CBD to the region edge and these variables’ interactions with price
growth. CBD distance is measured as the fraction of the way from the CBD to the furthest census
tract in the region from the CBD, running from 0 to 0.66 only. We use this functional form as it ﬁts
the data better than extending CBD distance out beyond 0.66. Our identifying variation is weakest
in CBD distance band 0.66-1, where census tracts are typically very large and there was not a lot
of 1990 employment variation for identiﬁcation and we found we could only reliably identify
an average tract-level supply elasticity. Overall, results in Table 7 show that there is substantial
within-region variation in local housing supply elasticities. In addition, results across the two
measures of price growth are very consistent.15
Results in column 1 show that estimated housing unit supply elasticities exhibit a monoton-
ically increasing trend with the distance to the city edge at a marginally decreasing rate. At the
CBD, on average, a one percent increase in house price increases the quantity of housing supplied
by only 0.2%. This number increases to 1.0% at halfway to the city edge and 1.2% at 90% of the way
to the city edge. These micro geography level estimates provide a supply-side explanation for the
recent ﬁnding of more price growth in the center of metropolitan areas in the latest boom Glaeser
et al. (2012); Yoshida (2016). They are also consistent with the observation that a given common
increase in demand throughout an urban area leads to a relatively smaller price response and
relative greater quantity response the further away from the center one gets Genesove and Han
(2013).
This CBD distance proﬁle depends in part on the fact that land availability increases with CBD
distance. Figure 1 shows that the average tract in our data is almost 60% developed at the CBD but
only 25% developed at the region edge. However, the fraction of tract land that is ﬂat also declines
from 45% to 35% from CBDs to region edges. To see how much these factors matter, Table 7 col-
umn 2 expands the speciﬁcation in column 1 by adding interactions between ∆ln P and the 2001
fraction of land developed in each tract, the fraction ﬂat and their interaction. The resulting coefﬁ-
cient estimates are negative, positve and negative respectively with only slightly attenuated CBD
distance coefﬁcients. To get a sense of magnitudes, all else equal increasing developed fraction by
0.25 (one standard deviation) decreases the quantity of new housing units supplied by 0.2% per
15HI results in Columns 7-12 have a slightly different speciﬁcation in which CBD distance extends out to the edge of
metros. As a lot of our investigation is about variation as a function of CBD distance, we focus on speciﬁcations that
control for region but not region-ring ﬁxed effects.
33


1% increase in price at the mean fraction ﬂat of 0.4. However, increasing fraction ﬂat by 0.42 (one
standard deviation) does not increase the supply of new housing units at the mean developed
fraction but increases unit supply by 0.2% per percent increase in price for undeveloped land. The
negative interaction between these two factors indicates that ﬂatness and lack of development are
complements in lowering the cost of new construction. Additional inclusion of elevation range
has no signiﬁcant estimated impact on supply elasticity.16
We ﬁnd evidence that the CBD distance effect persists conditional on topography and devel-
oped fraction because regulations ease with CBD distance. With the idea that housing regulations
mostly vary at the municipality level, we control for municipality ﬁxed effects in Table 7 Column
3. Doing so results in attenuation of CBD distance effects by 66-77%. Second, we focus on the 1,512
tracts in 8 cities for which we have FAR information for residentially zoned parcels. Inclusion of
the FAR restriction yields an expected positive interaction coefﬁcient of 0.07. Increasing FAR by 2
(one standard deviation) thus increases the unit supply elasticity by 0.14.17 CBD distance effects
attenuate even more with this speciﬁcation.18
In column 5, we examine whether the estimates from the main speciﬁcation in column 2 are
robust to the inclusion of metro-level factors. In particular, we consider the fraction of developed
land and the fraction of area that is lost to hills, water and wetland, both measured within the 50%
of the maximum radius from the city center. With the tract-level factors controlled for, the metro-
level supply conditions are insigniﬁcant for repeat sales price growth and implausibly positive
using hedonic adjusted price growth (column 11). However the effects of the tract-level factors
are remarkably consistent and robust.
In column 6, we focus on redevelopment. In particular, we repeat the main speciﬁcation in
column 2 but with redeveloped units as the dependent variable. These estimates are simply at-
tenuated versions of those in column 2, with this attenuation differing with CBD distance. Con-
ditional on developed fraction and topography, the redevelopment elasticity is about one-quarter
of the full unit supply elasticity on average, and it declines with CBD distance. This is consistent
16Exploration of additional interactions yielded low power and no signiﬁcant coefﬁcients.
17We also tried interacting various 2006 Wharton Regulation sub-indices measured at the municipality level with
price growth and found no signiﬁcant effects, though impacts are negative as expected. Loss of about half the sample
may explain the associated large standard errors.
18We have not found plausible instruments for regulatory constraints, though controls for 1990 and 2000 tract level
demographic characteristics may account for key determinants of the regulatory environment (Murphy (2018)).
34


with ﬁndings in the literature that prime teardowns are near public transportation and traditional
village centers in Chicago Dye and McMillen (2007) and closer to the CBD and the coast in Miami
Munneke and Womack (2015). Households attracted to redeveloped suburban housing can be
quite different from central-city gentriﬁers in that the former are likely to value high-quality pub-
lic schools while the latter value new, larger housing relatively close to the CBD Charles (2013).
In addition, land assembly for development may be easier with undeveloped parcels in more
suburban areas. Together, the signiﬁcant CBD distance effects, both in new construction and
in redevelopment, emphasize the importance of examining housing supply through the lens of
micro-geographic perspectives.
Results using the hedonic index instead, reported in Table 7 Columns 7-12, are very similar to
those for the repeat sales index.
5.2.2
Quality Adjusted Housing Supply
Table 8 focuses on quality-adjusted housing supply responses. Interestingly, CBD distance pat-
terns are no longer evident, as the relevant coefﬁcient estimates are insigniﬁcant. Intuitively, in-
tensive margin improvements are mainly capital rather than land intensive, reducing dependence
on land availability conditions and hence CBD distance. For this reason, we exclude CBD dis-
tance effects in our main speciﬁcation for quality supply, only letting this supply response depend
on initial land development and topographical features. As with the unit supply response, the
quality adjusted supply is more responsive when when there is less developed land and when
there is more ﬂat land in a given tract. These effects represent the aggregation of their respective
effects from unit supply. As noted above, quality-adjusted supply is 7-10 times more price elastic
than is unit supply, though we have large standard errors on our estimates of this type of supply
elasticity. Estimates are remarkably similar for ﬂoorspace and our housing quantity index.
5.3
Metro Level Heterogeneity
In Table 9, we examine the role of metro-level supply conditions on local housing supply elas-
ticities. Following Saiz (2010), we construct three measures of metro-level factors: the fraction
of developed land within the 50 km radius from the city centre; the fraction of area that is lost
to hills, water and wetland within the 50 km radius from the city centre; the metropolitan area
35


level WRLURI indices. To ensure the robustness of our results, we also reconstruct the ﬁrst two
variables within the 10 km, 20 km, 10%, 50% and 100% of the maximum radius from the CBD and
for the entire metropolitan area. All results discussed below are consistent across these different
measures.
Column 1 repeats the baseline CBD distance speciﬁcation in Table 7. In column 2, we add an
interaction between ∆ln P and the fraction of developed land within the 50 km radius from the
city centre. This coefﬁcient is imprecisely estimated; moreover, the distance coefﬁcients become
more noisy. Depending on the size of a metropolitan area, 50 km might be far outside of the
metropolitan boundary or only cover part of the area. In light of this, Column 3 reports estimates
from a regression that includes an interaction between ∆ln P and the fraction of developed land
within 50% of the maximum radius from the CBD. This coefﬁcient is again insigniﬁcant, although
including this variable does not signiﬁcantly affect the CBD distance pattern in local supply elas-
ticity. In columns 4 and 5, we run alternative regressions in which ∆ln P is interacted with the the
fraction of area that is lost to hills, water and wetland within the 50 km radius from the city centre.
In columns 6 and 7, we include both the metro-level initial development condition and metro-
level topographical conditions. Across these speciﬁcations, none of the metro-level factors appear
statistically signiﬁcant in explaining variations in local supply response. In column 8, we control
for an interaction between ∆ln P and and the metro-level WRLURI. The coefﬁcient is negative
and marginally signiﬁcant in the top panel, consistent with the expected effects of local regulation
(Saiz, 2010). However, the usual endogeneity concern applies here. In column 9, we include all the
metro-level supply conditions in addition to the CBD distance variables. None of the metro-level
factors appear signiﬁcant for local supply elasticity.
While the previous housing supply literature has established the importance of the metro-
level topographical features and regulations on the metro-level housing supply, we cannot ﬁnd
evidence that they explain variation in neighborhood level supply elasticities across metros of dif-
ferent types. We caution that our empirical setting is not well suited for this sort of analysis, as
our identiﬁcation strategy explicitly compares tracts in the same metro region that receive differ-
ent housing demand shocks. Interactions with metro level factors use between-metro variation
in housing demand shocks for identiﬁcation, which our empirical setup is not set up to deliver.
As such, it is not surprising that standard errors in Table 9 are large and estimates are imprecise.
36


We do not conclude that metro level land availability conditions do not matter for housing sup-
ply in aggregate, as metros with more unavailable land have lower tract level supply elasticities
which aggregate to more inelastic metro level housing supply. We demonstrate this carefully in
the following section. The point remains, however, that when analyzing impacts of a local housing
demand shock or a neighborhood-targeted policy, it is insufﬁcient to use the metro-level supply
elasticity. Instead, neighborhood level supply estimates are needed.
5.4
The Distribution of Tract-Level Supply Elasticities
We use the speciﬁcations in Table 7 columns 2 or 8 and 6 or 12 to predict out tract-level total
unit and unit redevelopment supply elasticities respectively for each tract. We use speciﬁcations
in Table 8 columns 1, 3, 5 and 7 to predict out quality adjusted supply elasticities. While the
estimation sample for Tables 7 and 8 are limited, we use coefﬁcient estimates to predict supply
elasticities for all census tracts in our data.
Table 10 provides summary statistics of these imputed elasticities. Across all tracts, mean
unit supply elasticities are about 0.8 of which one-quarter is from redevelopment. For quality-
adjusted supply, analogous elasticities are 2.6-4.3 depending on the index used. These objects
have standard deviations of 0.4-0.6 with the most supply elastic tracts having quality-adjusted
elasticities of about 5.2. This dispersion is of similar magnitudes within metro areas. With the
standard deviation of across region mean supply elasticities of only 0.1-0.3, more dispersion in
supply elasticities exists within rather than between metro areas. Therefore, understanding such
within region elasticity is really important. For the mean tract in our data, 77 percent of the total
supply elasticity comes from the intensive margin with the remainder from new unit construction.
We ﬁnd no role for depreciation and teardowns.
The three metropolitan areas with lowest average tract-level hedonic index based unit supply
elasticities are Jersey City (0.9), Newark (1.0) and Los Angeles (1.0), respectively. On the other
end, the three metropolitan areas with highest average tract-level supply elasticities are Dothan,
AL, Gainesville, FL and Ocala, FL (1.7 each), respectively. For quality-adjusted supply, Newark
(3.6), Jersey City (3.8) and San Diego (3.9) have the lowest average elasticities, with Los Angeles
ranked sixth, while Jacksonville, NC, Florence and Ocala (5.3 each) have the highest. There is large
variation in supply elasticities within metro areas. Within Los Angeles, the unit supply elasticity
37


ranges between 0.4 and 2.0 and quality-adjusted supply elasticities range from 3.0 to 5.7. The main
cross-region source of variation in dispersion in supply elasticities comes from the bottom end of
the distribution. In Ocala, unit supply elasticities range from 1.0 and 2.0 with the quality-adjusted
counterpart ranging from 4.4 to 5.6.
Our results indicate the remarkably consistent pattern that local supply elasticities increase
with CBD distance, some of which is attributed to initial development density and topography.
Figure 1 shows that the closer to city centers, there is a higher fraction of ﬂat, plain and developed
land, thereby contributing to the CBD distance gradient for supply elasticity. On average, the
fraction of tract-level developed land ranges from 60% at the CBD to less than 10% at 90 percent
of the way to the city edge. This pattern is consistent with the prediction from a monocentric
model of urban land use that the density of construction declines as one moves away from the
CBD (Duranton and Puga (2015)). Thus areas that are further away from the CBD effectively have
more land in which to deliver housing, permitted both by initial development density and by
topographical conditions. It is therefore tempting to conjecture that the CBD distance pattern in
supply elasticities is mostly explained by the increasing availability of land as one moves away
from the center.
Figure 2 shows how much this is the case. The left panel presents smoothed predictions of
four measures of unit supply and the right panel presents four measures of quality-adjusted sup-
ply based on repeat sales price growth. In the left panel, the ﬂatter curves show the imputed γ
when holding the tract-level fraction of developed land and fraction of ﬂat and plain land at each
tract’s respective metropolitan area mean level. It is clear that even without spatial variation in
initial density and topography, there is already a signiﬁcant increasing CBD distance effect in local
supply elasticities. This effect may be explained by local regulations which we do not control for in
our main speciﬁcation due to endogeneity concerns and associated required sample restrictions.
Closer to city centers, building permits and zoning restrictions may be more stringent, making
supply less elastic. Almost perfectly coinciding is imputed γ when holding only the fraction of
developed land at its metro-mean level, allowing for variation in topography across tracts. Local
topographical features do not add much to spatial variation in supply elasticities within cities.
The steeper curves plot the imputed γ when ﬁxing only the fraction of ﬂat and plain land at its
metro-mean level, allowing initial development density to vary across tracts. These curves are
38


much steeper and almost overlay the imputed overall γ (marked by the blue curve). Thus, the
monotonically declining development density with CBD distance, as shown in Figure 1, explains
almost all of the additional relationship between supply elasticity and CBD distance that exists
beyond that implied by the regression results in Table 6 Column 3. In the right panel of Figure 2,
we see more of a role for both topography and development density in explaining the increasing
proﬁle of quality-adjusted supply elasticities with respect to CBD distance.
We plot similar ﬁgures for select metropolitan areas (Log Angeles, New York, Madison and
Pittsburgh) in Figure 3. Regardless whether a metropolitan area is considered elastic as a whole, its
within-city variation in supply elasticities is always ampliﬁed by spatial variation in the fraction
of developed land and, for quality-adjusted supply, topography. While there is a tendency for
supply elasticity to increase with CBD distance, this effect gets mitigated in Pittsburgh and Los
Angeles by the hilly topography at the edges of these metro regions.
6
Aggregation
Much of the existing evidence on housing supply elasticities uses metro areas as the unit of anal-
ysis. In order to connect our estimates to these metro level estimates, in this section we aggregate
the estimated tract-level housing supply elasticities to the metro area level. Aggregation brings
up a number of conceptual and practical challenges. The typical approach, for example in Saiz
(2010), has been to use metro level labor demand and/or population supply shocks to deliver
housing demand shocks. However, as we show above in Section 3, positive labor demand shocks
tend to be disproportionately oriented toward suburban areas where housing supply is relatively
elastic. This means that metro level studies may ﬁnd supply elasticities that weight the suburbs
above their share of metro populations (though not necessarily land areas). Indeed, as neighbor-
hoods are linked in the residential demand system, metro level demand shocks of the same size
but aggregated from different combinations of changes in neighborhood fundamentals can im-
ply different metro level housing supply elasticities. Because of this variance to setting, here we
provide a few examples of the macro supply elasticities implied from some simple broad-based
neighborhood-speciﬁc shocks. Context matters and neighborhood level supply elasticities must
be aggregated as appropriate to the application at hand.
To get a handle on aggregation, we ﬁrst note that the tract level supply elasticity γir generically
39


aggregates to a metro region level elasticity γr as follows. Aggregating tract level supply growth
to the metro level means taking a sum weighted by initial neighborhood shares of the housing
stock:
∑
i
Hir
Hr
[d ln Hir = γird ln Pir]
Comparison with its region level counterpart d ln Hr = γrd ln Pr, by deﬁnition the region level
elasticity is given by
γr ≡[∑
i
Hir
Hr
γird ln Pir]/[∑
i
Hir
Hr
d ln Pir]
(24)
Here, we see that the metro level elasticity depends on the mix of neighborhoods experiencing
price growth that has been spurred by demand shocks. As neighborhoods are linked in spatial
equilibrium, it is difﬁcult to think how price changes in any two neighborhoods may occur in
mutual isolation.
If demand shocks were to generate the same price growth rate in every neighborhood, the
macro level elasticity would simply be the average of micro elasticities weighted by shares. How-
ever, exactly because of differing supply elasticities across locations, the same demand shock
in each location would typically generate different price changes and aggregation is thus not
straightforward. The following sub-section provides some examples.
6.1
Aggregation of Common Neighborhood Demand Shocks
In this sub-section we consider the case in which all neighborhoods simultaneously experience
housing demand shocks. Because of differing housing supply elasticities, these shocks manifest
themselves as different combinations of housing price and quantity changes, depending on the
neighborhood. With Cobb-Douglas preferences, we have that tract level expenditure share on
housing is HirPir
Yir
= 1 −β, where Yir ≡yirπir. Therefore, if the demand shock changes expected
income by the same percentage in every neighborhood, d ln Hir + d ln Pir is a constant, call it x. This
could happen, for example, if a city experiences a change in the individual productivity dispersion
parameter ε.
The resulting metro housing supply elasticity is a weighted average of tract-level elasticities,
where the weight is the initial housing share adjusted for neighborhood supply elasticity. Using
40


d ln Pir = x/(1 + γir) and using (24) to aggregate over tracts, we have
d ln Hr
d ln Pr
= γ1
r =
∑
i
Hir
Hr
γir
1+γir
∑
i
Hir
∑
i
Hir
1
1+γir
.
This expression reﬂects the fact that tracts with more elastic supply will receive lower weight in
aggregation because price growth is lower in these locations for a given demand shock.
In reality, demand shocks are likely to hit some neighborhoods more than others as households
move across tracts in search of lower housing costs. If this is the case, γ1
r would understate the true
aggregate elasticity. As such, we now turn to the case in which we assume that aggregate housing
demand shifts out in the city, but that people get distributed to neighborhoods only based on
neighborhood-speciﬁc price increases. We further assume that that demand shock occurs in a way
such that each tract has the same percentage change in price. This assumption can be justiﬁed
in the context of a spatial equilibrium condition as in Roback (1982) in which each neighborhood
differs in amenities but gets hit with the same income shock. In this case, the metro-level supply
elasticity is the following:
d ln Hir
d ln Qir
= γ2
r = ∑
i
 Hir
Hr
γir

Tracts with higher initial housing stock are typically associated with smaller housing supply re-
sponse, but these tracts are weighted more in γ2
r. Thus the resulting metro-level elasticity is likely
to underestimate the true elasticity.
Table 11 presents summary statistics about four versions of our two aggregate supply elas-
ticity measures γ1
r and γ2
r. Because our second aggregation scheme allows for some residential
substitution across tracts, the average of metro supply elasticities are slightly above grand tract-
level averages. All region level aggregate measures of supply elasticities are signiﬁcantly lower in
areas with a high fraction of land developed and most are also lower in regions with more unavail-
able land, with the hedonic price index based supply elasticities are more responsive in expected
directions to land unavailability (unreported). The key observation here is that tract-level supply
inﬂuencers also aggregate up to the metro level. Correlations between our metro level supply
elasticity measures and those found by Saiz (2010) are all positive but they are stronger for our
more broad-based hedonic indexes at 0.38.
To this point, we have relied on arbitrary assumptions about housing demand to aggregate
the tract-level supply elasticity into the metro-level supply elasticity. This approach, while useful,
41


cannot be used to perform an equilibrium analysis of the housing market nor a corresponding
welfare analysis.
6.2
Estimating the Neighborhood Demand System
We now turn to partial structural estimation of the model, which delivers parameters that govern
demand substitution patterns across neighborhoods. To understand how neighborhood-speciﬁc
demand shocks feed into price growth, we must ﬁrst specify the housing demand system. We
take this from the model in Section 3, using its structure to determine the substitution elasticities
between neighborhoods.
From (10) and (15), aggregate housing demand in each tract is given by
ln He f,d
i
= ln ˜ρHD + (φ
η −1) ln ∑
i´∈m(i)

Bi′Pβ−1
i′
RMA
1
ε
i′
η
+ 1 + η
ε
ln(RMAi) −(η(1−β) + 1) ln Pi + η ln Bi
Housing demand becomes more elastic as η and φ
η grow, as these objects reﬂect how fundamen-
tally substitutible neighborhoods are for each other by residents. Therefore, understanding how
much a given exogenous demand shock (through changes in Bi for example) affects prices versus
quantities requires knowledge of these parameters. Evident from the housing demand equation
above, the elasticity of substitution between any two neighborhoods in the same municipality is
η(1 −β) + 1, increasing in η. The elasticity of substitution between any two neighborhoods in
different municipalities also depends on φ.
We develop an “estibration” strategy for η and φ using the structural equations (16) and (18)
from the model for neighborhood and municipality population respectively. As inputs, we use
estimates of γir discussed above, estimates of (κε)r from gravity regressions and calibrated val-
ues for β and κ. The structural equations are estimated using GMM. (16) includes ﬁxed effects
for “municipalities”. After some experimentation with different deﬁnitions, we assign 5 munic-
ipalities to each region: one for the central city and one each for suburbs in north, south, east
and westerly directions. We impose that the error term in (16) depends on all of the same control
variables as the regressions in Table 2 and is orthogonal to our main instrument d ln
g
RMAi. To
estimate (18), we build a municipality level data set and impose that its error term is orthogonal
to ∑i(m)[Si(1 −1−β
1+γi )]d ln
g
RMAi, which only includes pre-determined objects. We calibrate β to 0.2
42


and κ to 0.005 or 0.01.19
Table 13 presents these results. The ﬁrst two columns show versions in which we assume
preferences are not nested, and φ = η. The ﬁnal two columns show results assuming fully nested
preferences, each for different assumptions about κ. We estimate η to be between 1.5 and 3.5
and φ to be between 3.8 and 8.8. Incorporation of nested choices reduces dispersion and raises
substitutibility across neighborhoods.
6.3
Opportunity Zones
Finally, we apply elasticity estimates to evaluate the 2017 Opportunity Zone (OZ) program. Among
other incentives, this program reduces or eliminates capital gains taxes on real estate investments
in certain poor census tracts nationwide in the US. We use our housing supply and demand elas-
ticity estimates to calculate the incidence associated with this policy in different neighborhoods
for residential housing only. Further impacts are beyond the scope of this analysis. We think of
the capital gains tax as reducing the price that initial buyers are willing to pay per unit of housing
services. When the capital gains tax is lifted, demand for affected neighborhoods increases due
purely to investment motives. It is intuitive that neighborhoods with more elastic supply will
draw in fewer new investors since potential returns are lower.
This analysis is in progress.
7
Conclusion
Since Rosenthal’s (1999) lament on the limited work on the supply side of housing, a number of
studies have identiﬁed regulation and topographical conditions as determinants of supply elastic-
ity. Saiz (2010) in his seminal work estimates housing supply elasticities at the metropolitan area
level and characterizes them as a function of both physical and regulatory constraints. In this pa-
per, we follow his insight and present the ﬁrst set of estimates of the tract-level supply elasticities.
Knowledge of local housing supply elasticities at a microgeographic scale is not only central to
19κ = 0.005 implies that 1 minute of commuting in one direction reduces full income by 0.5%. We also tried estimating
κ jointly with neighborhood demand parameters, but this yielded implied values of ε that were too low. This led us to
our “estibration” strategy.
43


understanding within-city house price dynamics Glaeser et al. (2012); Guerrieri et al. (2013), but
also important for evaluating place-based policy interventions Busso et al. (2013); Hanson (2009).
We ﬁnd that housing supply becomes more elastic further out from urban centers such that
there is more variation within than between metro areas in housing supply elasticity. This pattern
is in part but not entirely due to a larger fraction of land available for development. Initial de-
velopment density, availability of ﬂat land and zoning regimes are all important determinants of
local housing supply.
44


References
Ahlfeldt, G. M., & McMillen, D. P. (2014). New estimates of the elasticity of substitution of land
for capital. Louvain-la-Neuve: European Regional Science Association (ERSA).
Ahlfeldt, G. M., Redding, S. J., Sturm, D. M., & Wolf, N. (2015). The economics of density: Evidence
from the berlin wall. Econometrica, 83(6), 2127–2189.
Albouy, D., & Ehrlich, G. (2012). Metropolitan land values and housing productivity. Citeseer.
Bartik, T. J. (1991). Who beneﬁts from state and local economic development policies?
Baum-Snow, N., Hartley, D. A., & Lee, K. O. (2019). The long-run effects of neighborhood change
on incumbent families.
Been, V., Ellen, I., & Gedal, M. (2009). Teardowns and land values in new york city. In Lincoln
institute working paper.
Bendimerad, A. (2007). Developing a leading indicator for the remodeling industry. Joint Center for
Housing Studies of Harvard University.
Brooks, L., & Lutz, B. (2016). From today’s city to tomorrow’s city: An empirical investigation of
urban land assembly. American Economic Journal: Economic Policy, 8(3), 69–105.
Brueckner, J. K., & Rosenthal, S. S. (2009). Gentriﬁcation and neighborhood housing cycles: Will
america’s future downtowns be rich? The Review of Economics and Statistics, 91(4), 725–743.
Brueckner, J. K., & Singh, R. (2018). Stringency of land-use regulation: Building heights in us
cities.
Busso, M., Gregory, J., & Kline, P. (2013). Assessing the incidence and efﬁciency of a prominent
place based policy. American Economic Review, 103(2), 897–947.
Calabrese, S. M., Epple, D. N., & Romano, R. E. (2011). Inefﬁciencies from metropolitan political
and ﬁscal decentralization: Failures of tiebout competition. The Review of Economic Studies,
79(3), 1081–1111.
Charles, S. L. (2013). Understanding the determinants of single-family residential redevelopment
in the inner-ring suburbs of chicago. Urban Studies, 50(8), 1505–1522.
Choi, H.-S., Hong, H., & Scheinkman, J. (2014). Speculating on home improvements. Journal of
Financial Economics, 111(3), 609–624.
Combes, P.-P., Duranton, G., & Gobillon, L. (2019). The production function for housing: Evidence
from france.
45


Cosman, J., Davidoff, T., & Williams, J. (2018). Housing appreciation and marginal land supply in
monocentric cities with topography.
Couture, V., Gaubert, C., Handbury, J., & Hurst, E. (2019). Income growth and the distributional effects
of urban spatial sorting (Tech. Rep.).
Davidoff, T. (2016). Supply constraints are not valid instrumental variables for home prices be-
cause they are correlated with many demand factors. Critical Finance Review, 5(2), 177–206.
DiPasquale, D. (1999). Why don’t we know more about housing supply? The Journal of Real Estate
Finance and Economics, 18(1), 9–23.
Duranton, G., & Puga, D. (2015). Urban land use. In Handbook of regional and urban economics
(Vol. 5, pp. 467–560). Elsevier.
Dye, R. F., & McMillen, D. P. (2007). Teardowns and land values in the chicago metropolitan area.
Journal of urban economics, 61(1), 45–63.
Epple, D., Gordon, B., & Sieg, H. (2010). A new approach to estimating the production function
for housing. American Economic Review, 100(3), 905–24.
Genesove, D., & Han, L. (2013). A spatial look at housing boom and bust cycles. In Housing and
the ﬁnancial crisis (pp. 105–141). University of Chicago Press.
Glaeser, E. L., Gottlieb, J. D., & Tobio, K. (2012). Housing booms and city centers. American
Economic Review, 102(3), 127–33.
Glaeser, E. L., & Gyourko, J. (2005). Urban decline and durable housing. Journal of political economy,
113(2), 345–375.
Glaeser, E. L., Gyourko, J., & Saks, R. E. (2005). Urban growth and housing supply. Journal of
economic geography, 6(1), 71–89.
Guerrieri, V., Hartley, D., & Hurst, E. (2013). Endogenous gentriﬁcation and housing price dy-
namics. Journal of Public Economics, 100, 45–60.
Hanson, A. (2009). Local employment, poverty, and property value effects of geographically-
targeted tax incentives: An instrumental variables approach.
Regional Science and Urban
Economics, 39(6), 721–731.
Housing productivity and the social cost of land-use restrictions. (n.d.). Journal of Urban Economics,
107, 101.
McMillen, D., & O’Sullivan, A. (2013). Option value and the price of teardown properties. Journal
46


of Urban Economics, 74, 71–82.
Monte, F., Redding, S. J., & Rossi-Hansberg, E. (2018). Commuting, migration, and local employ-
ment elasticities. American Economic Review, 108(12), 3855-3890.
Munneke, H. J., & Womack, K. S. (2015). Neighborhood renewal: the decision to renovate or tear
down. Regional Science and Urban Economics, 54, 99–115.
Murphy, A. (2018). A dynamic model of housing supply. American Economic Journal: Economic
Policy, 10(4), 243–67.
Orlando, A., & Redfearn, C. (2018). What’s lost in the aggregate: Lessons from a local index of
housing supply restrictions. Unpublished Manuscript.
Ouazad, A., & Ranciere, R. (2019). City equilibrium with borrowing constraints: Structural esti-
mation and general equilibrium effects. International Economic Review, 60(2), 721-749.
Plaut, P., & Plaut, S. (2010). Decisions to renovate and to move. Journal of Real Estate Research,
32(4), 461–484.
Rosenthal, S. S. (2018). Owned now rented later? housing stock transitions and market dynamics.
Saiz, A. (2010). The geographic determinants of housing supply. The Quarterly Journal of Economics,
125(3), 1253–1296.
Severen, C. (2019). Commuting, labor, and housing market effects of mass transportation: Welfare and
identiﬁcation (Tech. Rep.).
Torchiana, A. L., Rosenbaum, T., Scott, P. T., & Souza-Rodrigues, E. (n.d.). Improving estimates of
transitions from satellite data: A hidden markov model approach (Tech. Rep.).
Tsivanidis, N. (2018). The aggregate and distributional effects of urban transit infrastructure:
Evidence from bogotas transmilenio. Unpublished manuscript.
von Ehrlich, M., Schöni, O., & Büchler, S. (2018). On the responsiveness of housing development
to rent and price changes: Evidence from switzerland.
Yoshida, J. (2016). Structure depreciation and the production of real estate services. Available at
SSRN 2734555.
Zhou, Y., & Haurin, D. (2010). On the determinants of house value volatility. Journal of Real Estate
Research, 32(4), 377-395.
Zillow.
(2017).
Ztrax: Zillow transaction and assessor dataset, 2017-q4.
(Zillow Group, Inc.
http://www.zillow.com/ztrax/)
47


A
Model Appendix
The fraction of residents of tract i that work in j Pr(
viωBizijkωwjk
P1−β
i
eκτij
>= maxj′,k′
viωBizij′k′ωwj′k′
P1−β
i
e
κτij′
) can be
determined using the properties of the Frechet draws zijkω.
πij|i =
∑k

wjke−κτijε
∑k ∑j′
h
wj′ke−κτij′ iε ≡∑k

wjke−κτijε
RMAi
(25)
We write this expression as a function of resident market access RMAi ≡∑k ∑j

wjke−κτijε, which
is a summary measure of the access to employment opportunities from residential neighborhood
i.
Before the productivity shock is revealed, the expected income (wage net of commuting cost)
yi associated with residing in tract i is E(maxj,k
wjkzijkω
eκτij ). Solving this through,
yi = Γ(1 −1
ε )(RMA)
1
ε
i
(26)
This object is increasing in RMAi and declining in ε. As ε increases, there is a smaller dispersion
in skill prices across locations, reducing the probability of individuals receiving high wage offers
in any location.
The probability that i is the highest utility residential location is the probability that the in-
clusive value of municipality m is the highest times the probability that neighborhood i is the
highest utility neighborhood in municipality m. Using properties of the Frechet distribution, this
second object is

BiPβ−1
i
yi
η
∑i′

Pβ−1
i′
Bi′yi′
η . The second object is
∑i´∈m(i)

Bi′ Pβ−1
i′
yi′
η
]
φ
η
∑m[∑i´∈m(i)

Bi′ Pβ−1
i′
yi′
η
]
φ
η ]
Plugging in for yi gives
the population supply function in the text..
The probability that j is the highest utility work location for a resident of any given tract i is
πij|i =
∑k
h
wjke−κτijiε
∑k ∑j′
h
wj′ke−κτijiε . Summing over the probability of living in i, we recover the labor supply to
tract j in the text.
48


References
Ahlfeldt, G. M., & McMillen, D. P. (2014). New estimates of the elasticity of substitution of land
for capital. Louvain-la-Neuve: European Regional Science Association (ERSA).
Ahlfeldt, G. M., Redding, S. J., Sturm, D. M., & Wolf, N. (2015). The economics of density: Evidence
from the berlin wall. Econometrica, 83(6), 2127–2189.
Albouy, D., & Ehrlich, G. (2012). Metropolitan land values and housing productivity. Citeseer.
Bartik, T. J. (1991). Who beneﬁts from state and local economic development policies?
Baum-Snow, N., Hartley, D. A., & Lee, K. O. (2019). The long-run effects of neighborhood change
on incumbent families.
Been, V., Ellen, I., & Gedal, M. (2009). Teardowns and land values in new york city. In Lincoln
institute working paper.
Bendimerad, A. (2007). Developing a leading indicator for the remodeling industry. Joint Center for
Housing Studies of Harvard University.
Brooks, L., & Lutz, B. (2016). From today’s city to tomorrow’s city: An empirical investigation of
urban land assembly. American Economic Journal: Economic Policy, 8(3), 69–105.
Brueckner, J. K., & Rosenthal, S. S. (2009). Gentriﬁcation and neighborhood housing cycles: Will
america’s future downtowns be rich? The Review of Economics and Statistics, 91(4), 725–743.
Brueckner, J. K., & Singh, R. (2018). Stringency of land-use regulation: Building heights in us
cities.
Busso, M., Gregory, J., & Kline, P. (2013). Assessing the incidence and efﬁciency of a prominent
place based policy. American Economic Review, 103(2), 897–947.
Calabrese, S. M., Epple, D. N., & Romano, R. E. (2011). Inefﬁciencies from metropolitan political
and ﬁscal decentralization: Failures of tiebout competition. The Review of Economic Studies,
79(3), 1081–1111.
Charles, S. L. (2013). Understanding the determinants of single-family residential redevelopment
in the inner-ring suburbs of chicago. Urban Studies, 50(8), 1505–1522.
Choi, H.-S., Hong, H., & Scheinkman, J. (2014). Speculating on home improvements. Journal of
Financial Economics, 111(3), 609–624.
Combes, P.-P., Duranton, G., & Gobillon, L. (2019). The production function for housing: Evidence
from france.
49


Cosman, J., Davidoff, T., & Williams, J. (2018). Housing appreciation and marginal land supply in
monocentric cities with topography.
Couture, V., Gaubert, C., Handbury, J., & Hurst, E. (2019). Income growth and the distributional effects
of urban spatial sorting (Tech. Rep.).
Davidoff, T. (2016). Supply constraints are not valid instrumental variables for home prices be-
cause they are correlated with many demand factors. Critical Finance Review, 5(2), 177–206.
DiPasquale, D. (1999). Why don’t we know more about housing supply? The Journal of Real Estate
Finance and Economics, 18(1), 9–23.
Duranton, G., & Puga, D. (2015). Urban land use. In Handbook of regional and urban economics
(Vol. 5, pp. 467–560). Elsevier.
Dye, R. F., & McMillen, D. P. (2007). Teardowns and land values in the chicago metropolitan area.
Journal of urban economics, 61(1), 45–63.
Epple, D., Gordon, B., & Sieg, H. (2010). A new approach to estimating the production function
for housing. American Economic Review, 100(3), 905–24.
Genesove, D., & Han, L. (2013). A spatial look at housing boom and bust cycles. In Housing and
the ﬁnancial crisis (pp. 105–141). University of Chicago Press.
Glaeser, E. L., Gottlieb, J. D., & Tobio, K. (2012). Housing booms and city centers. American
Economic Review, 102(3), 127–33.
Glaeser, E. L., & Gyourko, J. (2005). Urban decline and durable housing. Journal of political economy,
113(2), 345–375.
Glaeser, E. L., Gyourko, J., & Saks, R. E. (2005). Urban growth and housing supply. Journal of
economic geography, 6(1), 71–89.
Guerrieri, V., Hartley, D., & Hurst, E. (2013). Endogenous gentriﬁcation and housing price dy-
namics. Journal of Public Economics, 100, 45–60.
Hanson, A. (2009). Local employment, poverty, and property value effects of geographically-
targeted tax incentives: An instrumental variables approach.
Regional Science and Urban
Economics, 39(6), 721–731.
Housing productivity and the social cost of land-use restrictions. (n.d.). Journal of Urban Economics,
107, 101.
McMillen, D., & O’Sullivan, A. (2013). Option value and the price of teardown properties. Journal
50


of Urban Economics, 74, 71–82.
Monte, F., Redding, S. J., & Rossi-Hansberg, E. (2018). Commuting, migration, and local employ-
ment elasticities. American Economic Review, 108(12), 3855-3890.
Munneke, H. J., & Womack, K. S. (2015). Neighborhood renewal: the decision to renovate or tear
down. Regional Science and Urban Economics, 54, 99–115.
Murphy, A. (2018). A dynamic model of housing supply. American Economic Journal: Economic
Policy, 10(4), 243–67.
Orlando, A., & Redfearn, C. (2018). What’s lost in the aggregate: Lessons from a local index of
housing supply restrictions. Unpublished Manuscript.
Ouazad, A., & Ranciere, R. (2019). City equilibrium with borrowing constraints: Structural esti-
mation and general equilibrium effects. International Economic Review, 60(2), 721-749.
Plaut, P., & Plaut, S. (2010). Decisions to renovate and to move. Journal of Real Estate Research,
32(4), 461–484.
Rosenthal, S. S. (2018). Owned now rented later? housing stock transitions and market dynamics.
Saiz, A. (2010). The geographic determinants of housing supply. The Quarterly Journal of Economics,
125(3), 1253–1296.
Severen, C. (2019). Commuting, labor, and housing market effects of mass transportation: Welfare and
identiﬁcation (Tech. Rep.).
Torchiana, A. L., Rosenbaum, T., Scott, P. T., & Souza-Rodrigues, E. (n.d.). Improving estimates of
transitions from satellite data: A hidden markov model approach (Tech. Rep.).
Tsivanidis, N. (2018). The aggregate and distributional effects of urban transit infrastructure:
Evidence from bogotas transmilenio. Unpublished manuscript.
von Ehrlich, M., Schöni, O., & Büchler, S. (2018). On the responsiveness of housing development
to rent and price changes: Evidence from switzerland.
Yoshida, J. (2016). Structure depreciation and the production of real estate services. Available at
SSRN 2734555.
Zhou, Y., & Haurin, D. (2010). On the determinants of house value volatility. Journal of Real Estate
Research, 32(4), 377-395.
Zillow.
(2017).
Ztrax: Zillow transaction and assessor dataset, 2017-q4.
(Zillow Group, Inc.
http://www.zillow.com/ztrax/)
51


Table 1: Summary Statistics
Mean
Growth Rate
Tract Home Price Changes (Estimation Sample)
Growth
Mean
St Dev
Min
Max
Obs
Repeat Sales Index, 2000-2006
0.89
0.86
-1.77
69.07
24,773
Zillow Hedonic Index, 2000-2006
0.95
0.77
-2.04
15.28
24,975
Repeat Sales Index, 2000-2010
0.37
0.52
-3.20
17.52
23,877
Zillow Hedonic Index, 2000-2010
0.45
0.56
-10.11
8.57
24,697
Census Hedonic Index, 2000-2010
0.01
0.21
-3.63
2.30
31,263
Census Hedonic Index, 1990-2000
0.00
0.18
-2.38
2.15
31,263
Tract Housing Quantity Changes (Estimation Sample)
Stock of Housing Units, Census, 2000-2010
181
0.07
0.23
-3.18
5.91
31,250
Stock of Housing Units, Census, 1990-2000
202
0.14
0.32
-3.94
4.91
31,124
New Units, ACS, 2000-2009
237
0.11
0.20
0.00
5.83
31,242
New Units, Zillow, 2000-2006
193
0.09
0.19
0.00
5.68
30,606
New Units, Zillow, 2000-2009
232
0.10
0.21
0.00
5.90
30,605
Stock of Quality Adjusted Housing, 2000-2006
0.33
1.03
0.00
9.73
21,198
Stock of Quality Adjusted Housing, 2000-2010
0.53
1.22
0.00
10.02
21,187
New Units on Developed Land, ACS, 2000-2010
87
0.05
0.11
0.00
4.93
31,250
Stock of Housing on the Intensive Margin, 2000-2010
0.47
1.20
0.00
9.18
21,180
Tract Employment and Population Variables (Full Sample)
RMA, 2000-2006 (excludes 8 regions)
0.04
0.05
-0.88
0.76
59,752
Simulated RMA, 2000-2006
0.05
0.01
-0.02
0.09
63,897
Tract Employment, 2000-2006 (excl 8 regions)
53
-0.16
0.90
-8.96
6.04
61,359
Tract Employment, 2000-2010
78
-0.17
0.89
-11.25
6.39
63,616
Tract Level Bartik Instrument, 2000-2006
0.09
0.05
-0.13
0.25
63,897
Tract Population, 2000-2010
330
0.04
0.28
-5.56
7.37
63,578
Tract Level Supply Inﬂuencers (Full Available Sample)
Fraction of Land Area Developed, 2001
0.38
0.25
0.00
0.90
63,896
Fraction of Land Area Developed, 2011
0.39
0.24
0.00
0.90
63,896
Fraction of Land Area Flat
0.41
0.42
0.00
1.00
63,896
Fraction of Land Area Not Flat but Slope < 8%
0.45
0.37
0.00
1.00
63,896
Elevation Range (m)
64
147
0
4325
63,896
Wharton Real Estate Index (municipality level variation)
0.13
0.91
-2.02
4.22
30,526
Parcel Size Weighted Residential Floor Area Ratio (8 cities)
2.33
2.02
0.25
16.00
8,707
Metro Level Supply Inﬂuencers (Full Sample)
Fraction of Area Developed
0.05
0.04
0.00
0.38
306 metros
Fraction of Metro Area Unavailable for Development
0.26
0.20
0.00
0.87
306 metros
Fraction of Area Within 50 km of CBD Unavailable for Development
0.23
0.17
0.00
0.82
306 metros
Wharton Regulation Index (2008)
-0.08
0.82
-1.76
2.82
261 metros
52


Table 2: OLS Results for Housing Supply
(a) Controls for Region Fixed Effects
Quantity Measure
New Units
New Units
New Units
∆Units
∆Quantity Index
∆Intensive Margin
New Units, Redev.
Source
Zillow
Zillow
ACS
Census
Zillow
Zillow & Census
Zillow & USGS
Time Period
2000-2006
2000-2010
2000-2010
2000-2010
2000-2010
2000-2010
2000-2010
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(7)
Census Hedonic Index
-0.0908***
-0.0919***
-0.0921***
0.0198
0.0757**
-0.0306***
(0.00508)
(0.00478)
(0.00556)
(0.0368)
(0.0364)
(0.00293)
Zillow Repeat Sales Index
0.00310**
0.0123***
0.0140***
0.0191***
0.0537**
0.0355*
0.0103***
(0.00131)
(0.00283)
(0.00266)
(0.00297)
(0.0211)
(0.0208)
(0.00158)
Zillow Hedonic Index
0.0136***
0.0161***
0.0151***
0.0104***
0.118***
0.110***
0.00903***
(0.00254)
(0.00320)
(0.00302)
(0.00337)
(0.0230)
(0.0227)
(0.00178)
(b) Controls for Region-Ring Fixed Effects
Quantity Measure
New Units
New Units
New Units
∆Units
∆Quantity Index
∆Intensive Margin
New Units, Redev.
Source
Zillow
Zillow
ACS
Census
Zillow
Zillow & Census
Zillow & USGS
Time Period
2000-2006
2000-2010
2000-2010
2000-2010
2000-2010
2000-2010
2000-2010
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(7)
Census Hedonic Index
-0.0851***
-0.0874***
-0.0879***
-0.0518
0.00193
-0.0334***
(0.00520)
(0.00493)
(0.00573)
(0.0366)
(0.0362)
(0.00306)
Observations
30,605
31,242
31,250
21,187
21,180
31,250
# of Regions Included
274
275
275
224
224
275
Zillow Repeat Sales Index
0.000803
0.00680**
0.00948***
0.0107***
0.0115
0.000683
0.00703***
(0.00132)
(0.00291)
(0.00276)
(0.00306)
(0.0212)
(0.0210)
(0.00164)
Observations
24,771
23,876
23,870
23,877
16,407
16,407
23,877
# of Regions Included
161
163
163
163
146
146
163
Zillow Hedonic Index
0.0108***
0.0106***
0.0109***
0.00129
0.0233
0.0254
0.00623***
(0.00274)
(0.00351)
(0.00332)
(0.00371)
(0.0237)
(0.0234)
(0.00197)
Observations
24,969
24,694
24,689
24,697
17,457
17,457
24,697
# of Regions Included
164
169
169
169
152
152
169
Note: Each cell corresponds to the estimate from running an OLS regression of changes in housing quantities measured
as in described in the column on changes in house price index measured as described in the row. All speciﬁcations
include the 1990 and 2000 log employment, log house value, log rent, the distance to CBD and its square, 10 and 20 years
lags of tract-level demographic controls such as population, average household income, the share of African American,
the share of white people and the share of college graduate students. The top panel controls for the metropolitan area
ﬁxed effects and the bottom panel controls for the within-metropolitan-area ring ﬁxed effects.
53


Table 3: Tract Level Regressions of Employment Growth on Bartik Shocks
∆ln Emp, 2000-2006
∆ln Emp, 2000-2010
Tract Level Bartik Shock for 2000-2006
0.247***
0.172*
0.636***
0.626***
(0.0940)
(0.100)
(0.0920)
(0.0980)
Indicator for 0 Tract Employment in 2000
-0.00373
0.000515
0.0496**
0.0648***
(0.0209)
(0.0243)
(0.0204)
(0.0236)
Observations
61,359
61,359
63,616
63,616
R-Squared
0.058
0.050
0.055
0.047
Region Fixed Effects
298
306
Region-Ring Fixed Effects
4,392
4,523
Table 4: Relationships Between 1990-2000 and 2000-2006/10 Tract Housing Dynamics
∆ln House Price
∆ln House Quantity
∆ln Sim. RMA
2000-2010
2000-2010
2000-2006
∆ln House Price, 1990-2000
-0.277***
-0.301***
-0.0162**
-0.0260***
4.81e-05
-4.04e-05
(0.00662)
(0.00706)
(0.00653)
(0.00675)
(7.49e-05)
(6.32e-05)
∆ln House Quantity, 1990-2000
0.0302**
0.0209*
0.121***
0.0779***
-5.75e-05
-0.000219**
(0.0119)
(0.0124)
(0.0109)
(0.0109)
(0.000131)
(0.000107)
Lagged Demographic Controls
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
FE
Metro
Ring
Metro
Ring
Metro
Ring
54


Table 5: First Stage and Reduced Form Results
∆ln RMA, 2000-2006
∆Repeated Sales Index, 2000-2006
∆ln Simulated RMA, 2000-2006
0.694***
0.639***
0.586***
0.546***
12.43***
13.68***
7.966***
10.60***
(0.0510)
(0.0507)
(0.0532)
(0.0532)
(2.396)
(2.386)
(3.039)
(3.034)
Observations
28,381
28,381
28,381
28,381
24,773
24,773
24,773
24,773
R-squared
0.010
0.033
0.006
0.013
0.009
0.027
0.001
0.017
∆Repeated Sales Index, 2000-2010
∆Census Hedonic Index, 2000-2010
∆ln Simulated RMA, 2000-2006
7.235***
6.983***
2.804*
5.019***
2.074***
1.818***
3.480***
2.138***
(1.382)
(1.273)
(1.690)
(1.576)
(0.519)
(0.495)
(0.691)
(0.654)
Observations
23,877
23,877
23,877
23,877
31,263
31,263
31,263
31,263
R-squared
0.016
0.174
0.004
0.144
0.003
0.099
0.004
0.1147
∆ln New Units in Zillow, 2000-2006
∆ln New Units in Zillow, 2000-2010
∆ln Simulated RMA, 2000-2006
2.341***
1.615***
2.764***
2.255***
2.557***
1.792***
3.058***
2.522***
(0.449)
(0.415)
(0.562)
(0.533)
(0.499)
(0.461)
(0.621)
(0.587)
Observations
30,606
30,606
30,606
30,606
30,605
30,605
30,605
30,605
R-squared
0.062
0.207
0.012
0.122
0.061
0.209
0.012
0.125
Lagged Demographic Controls
No
Yes
No
Yes
No
Yes
No
Yes
FE
Metro
Metro
Ring
Ring
Metro
Metro
Ring
Ring
55


Table 6: IV Result for Housing Supply
∆Quantity
New Units
New Units
New Units
∆Units
∆Space
∆Quality
Redev.
-Adj.
Source
Zillow
Zillow
ACS
Census
Zillow
Zillow
Zillow
Census
Time Period
00-06
00-10
00-10
00-10
01-11
01-11
00-10
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(7))
Census HI
1.01**
0.81**
1.25***
7.35
7.38***
0.33*
(0.42)
(0.34)
(0.46)
(2.19)
(2.11)
(0.17)
1st-Stage F
11.63
13.23
13.29
14.23
1.76
13.29
Zillow RS
0.17***
0.40***
0.33***
0.41***
2.67***
2.62***
0.14***
(0.047)
(0.11)
(0.09)
(0.11)
(0.67)
(0.66)
(0.05)
1st-Stage F
32.73
30.09
30.09
30.09
20.75
5.47
30.09
Zillow HI
0.22***
0.51***
0.41***
0.54***
3.83***
3.83***
0.16**
(0.06)
(0.16)
(0.14)
(0.17)
(0.99)
(0.98)
(0.07)
1st-Stage F
66.29
19.59
19.48
19.57
17.92
9.69
19.57
FE
metro
metro
metro
metro
metro
metro
metro
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(7)
Census HI
1.27**
0.87**
1.07**
7.35**
7.52***
0.23
(0.55)
(0.39)
(0.47)
(2.19)
(2.25)
(0.18)
1st-Stage F
11.63
13.23
13.29
14.23
1.76
13.29
Zillow RS
0.28***
0.63***
0.51**
0.56**
4.58***
4.38***
0.17*
(0.10)
(0.23)
(0.20)
(0.22)
(1.69)
(1.67)
(0.09)
1st-Stage F
32.73
30.09
30.09
30.09
20.75
5.47
30.09
Zillow HI
0.21***
0.43***
0.35***
0.36***
3.15***
3.13****
0.11*
(0.06)
(0.13)
(0.11)
(0.17)
(0.12)
(0.67)
(0.06)
1st-Stage F
66.29
19.59
19.48
19.57
17.92
9.69
19.57
FE
ring
ring
ring
ring
ring
ring
ring
Note: Each entry shows the estimate from an IV regression of change in the housing quantity measure
in the column header on changes in the house price index measured indicated in each row. Panel A
includes MSA ﬁxed effects and Panel B includes MSA ﬁxed effects interacted with CBD distance bands
of 2 km width. All speciﬁcations include 1990 and 2000 log employment, log house value, log rent, the
distance to CBD and its square, 10 and 20 years lags of the following tract-level demographic controls:
log population, log average household income, share African American, share White, share college
graduates.
56


Table 7: Unit Supply: Heterogeneity by CBD Distance and Tract-Level Supply Conditions
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(7)
(8)
(9)
(10)
(11)
(12)
∆Quantity (Zillow)
∆Redev.
∆Quantity (Zillow)
∆Redev.
∆ln P
0.22*
0.51***
0.12***
-0.08
1.04**
0.18***
0.33**
1.06***
0.04
-0.46**
-0.02
0.37***
(0.12)
(-0.13)
(0.04)
(0.14)
(0.50)
(0.05)
(0.14)
(0.30)
(0.05)
(0.17)
(0.07)
(0.11)
∆ln P × dis
2.01***
1.76***
0.62***
0.36**
1.73**
0.46**
1.46***
1.42***
0.14
0.16
0.43***
0.23
(0.51)
(0.58)
(0.22)
(0.16)
(0.76)
(0.21)
(0.34)
(0.46)
(0.11)
(0.22)
(0.18)
(0.17)
∆ln P × dis × dis
-1.06***
-0.84***
-0.56**
-0.62***
-0.86**
-0.26**
-1.04***
-1.51***
0.07
0.37
0.09
-0.52***
(0.26)
(0.31)
(0.23)
(0.22)
(0.33)
(0.11)
(0.24)
(0.49)
(0.25)
(0.46)
(0.29)
(0.18)
∆ln P × Edge
0.99**
0.88**
0.17*
0.003
0.87*
0.21
0.06*
0.05
-0.05
-0.02
-0.06*
0.03
(0.37)
(0.36)
(0.10)
(0.14)
(0.45)
(0.13)
(0.03)
(0.06)
(0.03)
(0.03)
(0.03)
(0.03)
∆ln P × % Dev
-0.47***
-0.76***
-0.07**
-0.50***
-0.16***
-0.92***
-0.51***
0.07
-0.49***
-0.30***
(0.07)
(0.03)
(0.03)
(0.19)
(0.02)
(0.16)
(0.04)
(0.06)
(0.04)
(0.06)
∆ln P × % Flat
0.34***
0.52***
0.09**
0.28**
0.10***
0.35***
0.46***
0.17***
0.46***
0.08***
(0.04)
(0.03)
(0.05)
(0.11)
(0.02)
(0.05)
(0.03)
(0.06)
(0.03)
(0.02)
∆ln P × % Dev × % Flat
-0.77***
-0.75***
-0.11*
-0.63**
-0.21***
-0.46***
-0.64***
-0.65***
-0.07**
(0.12)
(0.05)
(0.06)
(0.31)
(0.05)
(0.10)
(0.04)
(0.04)
(0.03)
FARRM
0.07***
0.09***
(0.01)
(0.02)
∆ln P × MSA % Devr50
-1.17
-0.31
‘
(3.70)
(0.22)
∆ln P × MSA % Unavr50
-2.77
0.18**
(4.35)
(0.07)
FE
Metro
Metro
Muni
Metro
Metro
Metro
Metro
Metro
Muni
Metro
Metro
Metro
∆ln P Measure
. RS
RS
RS
RS
RS
RS
HI
HI
HI
HI
HI
HI
Observations
23,874
23,874
22,822
1,512
23,874
23,875
24,690
24,690
23,649
2,021
23,649
24,693
Note: All speciﬁcations include the 1990 and 2000 log employment, log house value, log rent, the distance to CBD and its square, 10 and 20 years lags of
tract-level demographic controls such as population, average household income, the share of African American, the share of white people, the share of
college graduate students and metropolitan area ﬁxed effects.
57


Table 8: Quality-Adjusted Supply: Heterogeneity by Tract-Level Supply Conditions
∆Quality
∆Space
∆Space
∆Quality
∆Quality
∆Space
∆Space
∆Quality
∆Quality
Supply
Adjusted
Adjusted
Adjusted
Adjusted
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(7)
(8)
∆ln P
2.97***
-0.23
2.95***
-0.22
5.43***
-0.32*
5.48***
-0.28*
(0.71)
(0.15)
(0.70)
(0.15)
(1.55)
(0.16)
(1.55)
(0.16)
∆ln P × % Dev
-0.79***
-0.71***
-0.86***
-0.67***
-2.76***
-0.16
-2.82***
-0.17
(0.18)
(0.10)
(0.18)
(0.10)
(0.79)
(0.11)
(0.79)
(0.12)
∆ln P × % Flat
-0.23
0.39***
-0.24
0.38***
0.12
0.63***
0.12
0.64***
(0.17)
(0.10)
(0.25)
(0.10)
(0.18)
(0.10)
(0.18)
(0.10)
∆ln P × % Dev × % Flat
0.11
0.07
0.24
0.17
0.29
-0.74***
0.33
-0.75***
(0.26)
(0.16)
(0.25)
(0.16)
(0.28)
(0.13)
(0.28)
(0.13)
FE
Metro
Muni
Metro
Muni
Metro
Muni
Metro
Muni
∆ln P Measure
RS
RS
RS
RS
HI
HI
HI
HI
Observations
22609
21650
22595
21635
23692
22745
23689
22741
Note: All speciﬁcations include the 1990 and 2000 log employment, log house value, log rent, 10 and 20 years lags of
tract-level demographic controls such as population, average household income, the share of African American, the
share of white people, the share of college graduate students and metropolitan area ﬁxed effects.
58


Table 9: Heterogeneity by CBD Distance and Metro-level Supply Conditions
(a) Over Repeated-Sales Price Growth
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(7)
(8)
(9)
∆Quantity (Zillow)
∆ln P
0.209*
21.74
0.943
1.873
0.284
2.148
0.849
-1.133***
1.927
(0.111)
(199.9)
(0.573)
(2.748)
(0.521)
(11.85)
(0.672)
(0.412)
(4.627)
∆ln P × dis
2.116***
6.633
2.509***
3.373
2.122***
4.719
2.508**
2.817***
1.197
(0.632)
(39.27)
(0.972)
(2.458)
(0.616)
(41.92)
(1.015)
(0.435)
(6.687)
∆ln P × dis × dis
-0.897***
0.303
-1.083***
-0.886**
-0.874***
-1.196
-1.120**
-1.228***
-0.395
(0.239)
(12.72)
(0.377)
(0.438)
(0.296)
(8.932)
(0.529)
(0.196)
(1.268)
∆ln P × MSA % Dev50
-119.9
5.653
-11.52
(1,073)
(166.8)
(17.22)
∆ln P × MSA % Devr50
-5.820
-5.938
(3.694)
(4.292)
∆ln P × MSA % Unav50
-13.47
-21.07
-6.645
(22.27)
(254.2)
(64.88)
∆ln P × MSA % Unavr50
-0.580
0.840
(4.098)
(5.864)
WRLURI
-0.511*
0.879
(0.266)
(3.124)
Observations
23,874
23,874
23,874
23,874
23,874
23,874
23,874
23,874
23,874
(b) Over Hedonic-Adjusted Price Growth
∆Quantity (Zillow)
∆ln P
0.351**
-0.400
-0.502*
-0.494
1.935
-0.632
1.313
-0.688***
-1.024
(0.143)
(0.484)
(0.260)
(0.578)
(9.581)
(0.585)
(6.672)
(0.188)
(0.803)
∆ln P × dis
1.390***
2.452***
2.430***
3.116**
6.762
2.908**
6.407
2.551***
-0.061
(0.327)
(0.533)
(0.443)
(1.250)
(16.20)
(1.171)
(13.77)
(0.638)
(1.045)
∆ln P × dis × dis
-0.877***
-0.821***
-0.879***
-1.501**
-4.055
-1.557**
-3.670
-1.018***
-1.190
(0.200)
(0.149)
(0.177)
(0.728)
(10.69)
(0.607)
(8.555)
(0.354)
(0.823)
∆ln P × MSA % Dev50
-1.254
3.108
2.210
(3.608)
(2.864)
(2.142)
∆ln P × MSA % Devr50
-0.910
-7.127
(1.335)
(25.84)
∆ln P × MSA % Unav50
-5.670
-4.797
4.606
(3.929)
(3.794)
(6.015)
∆ln P × MSA % Unavr50
-36.24
-32.10
(107.7)
(85.31)
WRLURI
-0.492
0.523*
(0.632)
(0.281)
Observations
24,690
24,690
24,690
24,690
24,690
24,690
24,690
24,690
24,690
Note: All speciﬁcations include the 1990 and 2000 log employment, log house value, log rent, the distance to CBD and
its square, 10 and 20 years lags of tract-level demographic controls such as population, average household income, the
share of African American, the share of white people, the share of college graduate students and metropolitan area
ﬁxed effects. The top panel uses the repeated sales price growth and the bottom panel uses the hedonic price growth.
59


Table 10: Tract Level Supply Elasticities (γi)
5%
25%
50%
75%
95%
Mean
S.D
obs
Based on Repeated-Sales Price Growth
Unit Supply Elasticity
0.14
0.45
0.74
1.08
1.48
0.78
0.42
63,896
Redevelop Supply Elasticity
0.06
0.15
0.22
0.30
0.38
0.22
0.10
63,896
Space Supply Elasticity
2.21
2.38
2.56
2.73
2.90
2.56
0.21
63,896
Quality-Adjusted Supply Elasticity
2.20
2.37
2.53
2.70
2.87
2.53
0.21
63,896
Intensive Margin Supply Elasticity
1.77
1.92
1.98
2.07
2.14
1.98
0.11
63,896
Based on Hedonic Price Growth
Unit Supply Elasticity
0.26
0.62
0.91
1.12
1.36
0.87
0.38
63,896
Redevelop Supply Elasticity
0.06
0.16
0.23
0.29
0.40
0.23
0.10
63,896
Space Supply Elasticity
3.23
3.84
3.87
4.36
5.16
4.28
0.60
63,896
Quality-Adjusted Supply Elasticity
3.24
3.88
4.35
4.81
5.20
4.31
0.61
63,896
Intensive Margin Supply Elasticity
2.80
3.22
3.49
3.79
4.08
3.48
0.38
63,896
Note; The tract-level supply elasticities reported in this table are imputed using the estimates from Speciﬁcations (2),
(6), (8) and (12) in Table 7 and Speciﬁcations (1), (3), (5) and (7) in Table 8, combined with the tract-level data on cbd
distance, developed fraction and topographical features.
60


Table 11: Summary Statistics of Imputed Metro-Level Supply Elasticities
Mean
Std. Dev.
Min
Max
# Obs
Corr. ρ
Less Neighborhood Substitution
Unit Supply Elasticity (RS)
.8442
.1462
.3068
1.2012
306
0.2006**
Unit Supply Elasticity (HI)
.9987
.1262
.4364
1.2572
306
0.3791**
Quality Supply Elasticity (RS)
2.6283
.1037
2.3021
2.8229
306
0.3657**
Quality Supply Elasticity (HI)
4.6144
.2418
3.5023
5.0174
306
0.4251**
More Neighborhood Substitution
Unit Supply Elasticity (RS)
.9183
.1475
.3714
1.2672
306
0.2114**
Unit Supply Elasticity (HI)
1.0337
.1190
.4986
1.2919
306
0.3819**
Quality Supply Elasticity (RS)
2.6340
.1033
2.3097
2.8249
306
0.3571**
Quality Supply Elasticity (HI)
4.6493
.2318
3.5515
5.0272
306
0.4280**
Saiz Supply Elasticity
Saiz Supply Elasticity
2.6093
1.4643
.5953
12.1480
236
1
Note: ρ shows the pairwise correlation between the imputed metro-leve elasticities and the Saiz measure of metro-level
housing supply elasticity. * indicates 10%; ** indicates 1% level signiﬁcance for the null hypothesis of independency
between γ and the Saiz elasticity.
61


Table 12: Heterogeneity in Metro-level Supply Elasticities
(a) Less Neighborhood Substitution
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
Unit
Unit
Quality
Quality
(RS)
(HI)
(RS)
(HI)
MSA % Devr50
0.14
-0.71***
-0.65***
-2.38***
(0.18)
(0.14)
(0.12)
(0.24)
MSA % Unavr50
-0.02
-0.04
0.11***
-0.05
(0.04)
(0.04)
(0.03)
(0.07)
WRLURI
-0.04***
-0.05***
-0.02***
-0.09***
(0.01)
(0.01)
(0.01)
(0.02)
Observations
306
306
306
306
(b) More Neighborhood Substitution
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
Unit
Unit
Quality
Quality
(RS)
(HI)
(RS)
(HI)
MSA % Devr50
0.07
-0.71***
-0.65***
-2.34***
(0.18)
(0.13)
(0.12)
(0.23)
MSA % Unavr50
-0.05
-0.06*
0.11***
-0.04
(0.05)
(0.04)
(0.03)
(0.06)
WRLURI
-0.03**
-0.04***
-0.02***
-0.08***
(0.01)
(0.01)
(0.01)
(0.02)
Observations
306
306
306
306
Note: The dependent variable is the imputed metro-level supply elasticity. MSA % Devr50 indicates the fraction of
developed land within 50% of maximum radius from the CBD; MSA % Unavr50 indicates the fraction of area that is
lose to hills, water and wetland within 50% of maximum radius from the CBD; WRLURI indicates the metropolitan-
area-level WRLURI indices.
62


Table 13: Demand Substitution Parameters from Estibration
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
One layer
One layer
Two layer
Two layer
choice
choice
nested choice
nested choice
κ
0.005
0.01
0.005
0.01
η
2.58
1.46*
3.45***
1.89***
(1.69)
(0.75)
(1.43)
(0.58)
φ
8.78***
3.84***
(0.62)
(0.24)
ϵ min
2.24
1.12
2.24
1.12
ϵ max
21.40
10.70
21.4
10.7
ϵ mean
5.60
2.80
8.1
4.05
Standard errors in parentheses
63


Figure 1: CBD Distance Patterns in Tract-Level Supply Conditions
.2
.3
.4
.5
.6
Fitted values
0
.2
.4
.6
.8
1
Distance From CBD (%)
% ﬂat land
% developed land
Tract-Level Density and Topography
Figure 2: CBD Distance Patterns in Supply Elasticities Across All Tracts
0
.5
1
1.5
Fitted values
0
.2
.4
.6
.8
1
pct_dis
Unit Supply Elasticity (RS)
2.3
2.4
2.5
2.6
2.7
Fitted values
0
.2
.4
.6
.8
1
pct_dis
Quality Supply Elasticity (RS)
gamma
gamma1 (ﬁx density and topography)
gamma2 (ﬁx density only)
gamma3 (ﬁx topography only)
64


Figure 3: CBD Distance Patterns in Selected MSAs
0
.5
1
1.5
Unit Supply Elasticity (RS)
0
.2
.4
.6
.8
1
pct_dis
Los Angeles
0
.5
1
1.5
Unit Supply Elasticity (RS)
0
.2
.4
.6
.8
1
pct_dis
New York
0
.5
1
1.5
Unit Supply Elasticity (RS)
0
.2
.4
.6
.8
1
pct_dis
Madison
0
.5
1
1.5
Unit Supply Elasticity (RS)
0
.2
.4
.6
.8
1
pct_dis
Pittsburgh
2.3
2.4
2.5
2.6
2.7
Quality Supply Elasticity (RS)
0
.2
.4
.6
.8
1
pct_dis
Los Angeles
2.2
2.3
2.4
2.5
2.6
2.7
Quality Supply Elasticity (RS)
0
.2
.4
.6
.8
1
pct_dis
New York
2.4
2.5
2.6
2.7
2.8
Quality Supply Elasticity (RS)
0
.2
.4
.6
.8
1
pct_dis
Madison
2.5
2.6
2.7
2.8
Quality Supply Elasticity (RS)
0
.2
.4
.6
.8
1
pct_dis
Pittsburgh
gamma
gamma1 (ﬁx density and topography)
gamma2  (ﬁx density only)
gamma3 (ﬁx topography only)
65


A
Model Appendix
The fraction of residents of tract i that work in j Pr(
viωBizijkωwjk
P1−β
i
eκτij
>= maxj′,k′
viωBizij′k′ωwj′k′
P1−β
i
e
κτij′
) can be
determined using the properties of the Frechet draws zijkω.
πij|i =
∑k

wjke−κτijε
∑k ∑j′
h
wj′ke−κτij′ iε ≡∑k

wjke−κτijε
RMAi
(27)
We write this expression as a function of resident market access RMAi ≡∑k ∑j

wjke−κτijε, which
is a summary measure of the access to employment opportunities from residential neighborhood
i.
Before the productivity shock is revealed, the expected income (wage net of commuting cost)
yi associated with residing in tract i is E(maxj,k
wjkzijkω
eκτij ). Solving this through,
yi = Γ(1 −1
ε )(RMA)
1
ε
i
(28)
Not surprisingly, this object is increasing in RMAi and declining in ε. As ε increases, there is a
smaller dispersion in skill prices across locations, reducing the probability of individuals receiving
high wage offers in any location.
The probability that i is the highest utility residential location is the probability that the in-
clusive value of municipality m is the highest times the probability that neighborhood i is the
highest utility neighborhood in municipality m. Using properties of the Frechet distribution, this
second object is

BiPβ−1
i
yi
η
∑i′

Pβ−1
i′
Bi′yi′
η . The second object is
∑i´∈m(i)

Bi′ Pβ−1
i′
yi′
η
]
φ
η
∑m[∑i´∈m(i)

Bi′ Pβ−1
i′
yi′
η
]
φ
η ]
Plugging in for yi gives
the population supply function in the text..
The probability that j is the highest utility work location for a resident of any given tract i is
πij|i =
∑k
h
wjke−κτijiε
∑k ∑j′
h
wj′ke−κτijiε . Summing over the probability of living in i, we recover the labor supply to
tract j in the text.
66


Table 14: Analysis of Pre-Treatment Trends
∆Census Hedonic Index 1990-2000
∆ln Sim. RMA, 2000-2006
0.360
0.277
-0.294
-0.361
(0.448)
(0.431)
(0.585)
(0.565)
Observations
31,263
31,263
31,263
31,263
R-Squared
0.003
0.083
0.002
0.073
∆ln House Quantity, 1990-2000
∆ln Sim. RMA, 2000-2006
3.117***
-0.109
2.402***
-0.679**
(0.720)
(0.248)
(0.916)
(0.334)
Observations
31,124
31,124
31,124
31,124
R-Squared
0.093
0.893
0.037
0.872
Region All FE
275
275
Region-Ring FE
3,235
3,235
Demographic Controls
No
Yes
No
Yes
67


