Build, Baby, Build: How Housing Shapes Fertility
Benjamin K. Couillard∗
Economics Department, University of Toronto
November 9, 2025
Click Here For Latest Version
Abstract
Many developed countries face low and falling birthrates, potentially aﬀected by rising
costs of housing. Existing evidence on the fertility-housing cost relationship typically uses
geographic variation (raising selection issues), neglects unit size, and says little about policy. To
progress on these fronts, I ﬁrst specify a dynamic model of the joint housing-fertility choice
allowing choices over location and house size, estimated using US Census Bureau data. I
extend ‘micro-moment’ techniques (Petrin, 2002; Berry et al., 2004a) both to circumvent data
constraints and to incorporate heterogeneous residuals, which can prevent misspeciﬁcation.
Housing choice estimates conﬁrm a Becker quantity-quality model’s predictions: large families
are more cost-sensitive, and so rising housing costs disincentivize fertility. To study the causal
eﬀect of rising housing costs on fertility, I vary them directly within the model, ﬁnding that
rising costs since 1990 are responsible for 11% fewer children, 51% of the total fertility rate
decline between the 2000s and 2010s, and 7 percentage points fewer young families in the
2010s. Policy counterfactuals indicate that a supply shift for large units generates 2.3 times
more births than an equal-cost shift for small units. This analysis concludes that the supply of
housing suitable for families can meaningfully contribute to demographic sustainability.
JEL: J13, R21, R52, J12, R312, C81
Keywords: Fertility decline, housing aﬀordability, household formation, family-friendly housing, neigh-
borhood sorting, housing supply, zoning/regulatory tax, dynamic discrete choice, micro-moments, iterative
proportional ﬁtting
∗University of Toronto Economics Department. Email: ben.couillard@mail.utoronto.ca. I thank my supervisory
committee, Nate Baum-Snow, Stephan Heblich, Rob McMillan, & Victor Aguirregabiria, for their steadfast guidance
and support. I also thank U of T’s urban and IO groups, and participants of the 2025 Canadian Summer Conference
in Real Estate and Urban Economics. This research was supported in part by funding from the Social Sciences and
Humanities Research Council of Canada, and an Ontario Graduate Scholarship. All errors and omissions are my own.


Build, Baby, Build
Couillard
1
Introduction
Persistently low fertility brings with it a host of adverse economic consequences, including higher
pension and healthcare costs, reduced innovation, slower growth, and population shrinkage (Bloom
et al., 2024). Although immigration can improve demographic structure in the short run, much of
the developing world currently has or is projected to have sub-replacement fertility (UN, 2022). To
achieve long run demographic sustainability, policymakers should also consider how birth rates
might be raised.
One promising but under-studied lever involves housing. Larger families demand more housing,
so a higher marginal cost may deter additional births, as does a high cost of child quality (e.g.,
education) in a standard child quantity-quality model (Becker, 1960). While there is empirical
support for this channel, prior work (i) is often aﬄicted by a geographic selection problem, as those
with preferences for many children tend to sort into lower-cost locations, (ii) does not incorporate
nonlinearities in the cost of housing over unit size, and (iii) does not consider the impacts of policies
that shift housing supply.
To advance on these fronts, I ﬁrst specify a dynamic model that captures the joint housing-
fertility and household formation decisions. I can then ﬁnd the impact on fertility net of sorting
by varying housing costs in a partial-equilibrium decomposition, which I then extend to general-
equilibrium housing supply policy counterfactuals that target particular unit sizes. This model nests
a static residential choice model in a broader dynamic ‘living arrangement’ model, which includes
fertility choice. The residential choice component speciﬁes the choice variable as combinations of
neighborhood and house size (number of bedrooms), and allows preferences to be heterogeneous
over age, tenure, family/roommate households, and household size. Agents make living arrangement
and fertility decisions knowing how they will aﬀect their housing demand, so changes in housing
characteristics (including costs) have heterogeneous impacts on the values of living arrangement
choices. The living arrangement decision includes living with parents or other family members, and
so the long-run value of having children is linked to the endogenous probability that adult children
or other family members will unilaterally choose to live in the household. This mechanism will
be important when units are heterogeneous in size, since aﬀordable small units raise the short-run
value of being single relative to starting a family, but also reduce the long-run cost of fertility since
adult children are more likely to move out.
I then estimate the housing demand model by applying and extending IO “micro-moment”
techniques to surmount the problem of not observing the joint distribution of household counts over
census tracts and the various dimensions of demographic heterogeneity. Since Petrin (2002) and
Berry et al. (2004a), marginal distributions of the choice variable with individual dimensions of
heterogeneity have been used to estimate heterogeneous parameters in discrete choice models under
2


Build, Baby, Build
Couillard
an assumption of additive separability. However, these techniques restrict the utility residual to
be homogeneous over demographics and can thus lead to model misspeciﬁcation in some cases,
depending on which marginal distributions are used, the number of choice options, and the number
of parameters in the model. I show that in the case where the utility residual is unrestricted and
there are no random coeﬃcients, the observed marginal distributions are suﬃcient statistics for the
two-step estimator of Bayer et al. (2007).
My housing demand results are consistent with a Beckerian (1960) quantity-quality model
extended to include housing: larger families are more sensitive to housing costs and have stronger
tastes for larger units. Thus, rising housing costs – whether only in the largest units, or on average –
do contribute to declining fertility. I quantify this eﬀect in a decomposition, using fertility utility
parameters to hold constant all non-housing determinants of fertility: if rents had not risen since
1990, 13 million (11%) more children would have been born between 1990 and 2020, and the
decline in fertility between the 2000s and 2010s would have been smaller by 51%. In further
decompositions, I separately impose 1990 relative rents (letting the average rents rise) and average
rents (letting the relative rents vary), ﬁnding that average rents have the larger eﬀect on fertility.
Finally, I use the model and estimates to compare two potential housing supply policy counter-
factuals, separately shifting the supply of large 3+ bedroom and small 1 bedroom units. I interpret
these shifts as reductions in distortionary local regulatory taxes; however, to place the two policies
on equal footing, I deﬁne the shifts as if subsidies that generate equal aggregate funding had been
provided (5% of annual aggregate rental expenditures, assuming all agents are renters and based
on baseline rents and quantities), so that the small-unit shift generates more total units. The small
unit policy is de facto YIMBY policy, which focuses on small and low-cost units, while the large
unit policy is a direct attempt at family-friendly housing policy1. In principle, the YIMBY policy
could cause the larger fertility increase through a larger eﬀect on aggregate rents and a reduction
in the long-run housing cost of fertility by prompting young adults to move out of their parents’
homes, even as it would steepen the size-cost gradient. On the other hand, the large unit policy
would generate a smaller decrease in average rents, but ﬂatten this gradient. I ﬁnd that the large unit
policy causes 4.7 million (4%) more children to be born over three decades. Interpreting these shifts
as a subsidy, the return is one birth per $160,000 (2022 USD), which is on the high end of estimates;
interpreting these shifts as reductions in “regulatory taxes” on development suggests that birth rates
can be increased at a low cost while increasing economic eﬃciency. The YIMBY policy achieves
only 43% this number of births, because its largest eﬀect is making living alone more attractive.
1The small unit policy mix would include speciﬁc policies like expanding micro-units and acessory dwelling units,
easing lot subdivision, and fast-track approvals for large condo buildings with many small units. Even given “the closing
of the suburban frontier” (Glaeser and Gyourko, 2025), a feasible large unit policy mix would build out the missing
middle, especially when coupled with relaxed parking, stair / ﬁre safety, and bathroom rules, which distort living space
away from the bedrooms that families value most (Stone and Fijan, 2025)
3


Build, Baby, Build
Couillard
I conclude that rising housing costs are a major cause of declining fertility, even after correcting
for endogenous sorting. This relationship mostly results from increasing housing costs across all unit
sizes, rather than raising the relative rents of large units. However, a large unit policy that combines
a smaller eﬀect on average rents with a ﬂattening size-cost gradient outperforms a small unit policy
that combines a larger eﬀect on average rents with a steepening size-cost gradient. If housing is to
be a lever in family policy, the focus must be on producing the housing that families actually want.
1.1
Related Literature and Contribution
This paper makes four contributions. My ﬁrst contribution is to provide estimates of the impact
of housing costs on fertility that are free from selection bias. Although the negative relationship
between income and fertility is “pervasive,” (Doepke et al., 2023), it is generated by other factors
like a quantity-quality tradeoﬀ(Becker, 1960) and opportunity cost of women’s time. Indeed,
a host of empirical papers show that children are a normal good (Fleisher and Rhodes, 1979;
Borg, 1989; Heckman and Walker, 1990; Black et al., 2013; Kearney and Wilson, 2018; Autor
et al., 2019; Cesarini et al., 2023; Tsai et al., 2022). When housing costs are high, there is less
income available for children, and when the relative price of family-friendly housing is high then
families will substitute away from more children, although incumbent homeowners may experience
a countervailing positive wealth shock even as mortgage payments increase.
The empirical literature on housing costs and fertility is consistent with these mechanisms,
ﬁnding that high housing costs reduce renter fertility and have varying eﬀects on owner fertility
(Dettling and Kearney, 2014; Clark and Ferrer, 2019; Lovenheim and Mumford, 2013; Pan and
Yang, 2022; Daysal et al., 2021; Atalay et al., 2021; Liu and Zhang, 2024; Clark, 2012; Simon
and Tamura, 2009; Dettling and Kearney, 2025; Cumming and Dettling, 2024; Fazio et al., 2025;
Japaridze and Sayour, 2024). However, all of the aforementioned papers save Cumming and Dettling
(2024) and Fazio et al. (2025) (which focus on housing ﬁnance) use geographic variation in housing
costs, and provided that households simultaneously choose both fertility and housing reduced-form
coeﬃcients will include a sorting eﬀect as high-fertility-propensity households sort into lower-cost
locations. I explicitly account for this phenomenon by embedding a sorting model into a fertility
choice model, and provide estimates of the impact of rising housing costs since 1990 in the ﬁrst
decomposition, generating smaller aggregate results than an analogous reduced-form exercise.
My second contribution is to analyze the distinct roles that small and large units play in fertility
and household formation by incorporating them into a single framework. Young adults rarely start
families while living with their parents. An empirical literature ﬁnds that high housing costs reduce
household formation (B¨orsch-Supan, 1986; Haurin et al., 1993; Ermisch and Salvo, 1997; Ermisch,
1999; Paciorek, 2013; Cooper and Luengo-Prado, 2018; Wrenn et al., 2019; Lafortune and Low,
4


Build, Baby, Build
Couillard
2023) but both this literature and the housing-fertility literature (with the exception of Clark, 2012)
do not consider housing unit size. We would expect the aﬀordability of large units to be more
relevant for fertility and the aﬀordability of small units to be more relevant for household formation.
Aﬀordable small units have an ambiguous eﬀect on fertility: they may lower the long-run cost
of fertility by inducing adult children to move out, or they may make remaining childless more
attractive relative to starting a family2. I accommodate these mechanisms by including the number of
bedrooms as a dimension of housing choice, and including the presence of adult children and other
family members in the dynamic state. These mechanisms are explored in the latter decompositions
where I alternately hold constant and let vary average and relative housing prices, ﬁnding that
average prices matter more, as well as the housing policy counterfactuals.
My third contribution is to analyze fertility under housing policy counterfactuals. The large
number of reduced-form papers on the topics of housing costs, fertility, and household formation
underlines the importance of these topics, but housing costs are endogenous and cannot be directly
controlled by policy, calling for counterfactual analysis that shifts exogenous variables. There is
increasing interest in using structural models to jointly analyze urban economics and demography,
but these papers focus more on the impact of demographics on urban outcomes rather than the
reverse (Coeurdacier et al., 2022; Ahlfeldt et al., 2025; Moreno-Maldonado and Santamar´ıa, 2024;
Albouy and Faberman, 2025). I therefore consider regulatory tax reductions (that can also be
understood as housing supply subsidies) in conjunction with estimated local supply elasticities
(Baum-Snow and Han, 2024), solve for the new sorting-fertility equilibrium, and calculate fertility
statistics for comparison, ﬁnding that subsidizing larger units is far more eﬀective in raising fertility.
My fourth contribution is to include rich heterogeneity and microgeography in a neighbor-
hood sorting model without conﬁdential microdata by applying IO micro-moment techniques
(Petrin, 2002; Berry et al., 2004a), and deriving a suﬃcient statistics result to extend them to to
accommodate heterogeneous residuals; the latter, as I show, can prevent misspeciﬁcation in some
cases. In comparison, logit-based sorting models have been estimated with rich heterogeneity and
microgeography using conﬁdential microdata (e.g. Bayer et al., 2007); with rich heterogeneity and
larger geographies observable in public-use microdata (e.g. Diamond, 2016); and with limited
heterogeneity and microgeography using public-use tabulations (e.g. Couture and Handbury, 2020).
Instead, I employ a simple manipulation of the Bayer et al. (2007) log-likelihood under additive
separability of preferences to show that public-use tabulations and higher-geography public-use
microdata are together suﬃcient statistics for the model. I pursue this approach because standard IO
tools that use the same data (like PyBLP, Conlon and Gortmaker, 2020; Conlon and Gortmaker,
2023) to estimate demographic heterogeneity in parameters impose demographic homogeneity on
2They may also provide young adults an intermediate step to starting a family by fostering independence and
attractiveness on the marriage market, but this mechanism is not included in the model.
5


Build, Baby, Build
Couillard
the systematic unobserved utility ξ. As Athey and Imbens (2007) ﬁrst observed, a model with a
single unobserved characteristic may not be able to rationalize choice data that is disaggregated by
demographics. I show that when the number of micro-moments (marginal distributions) grows with
the number of options J, there is a J∗such that a model with a homogeneous residual is unable
to rationalize the data and is thus misspeciﬁed, and standard identiﬁcation and consistency results
(Berry and Haile, 2014; Berry et al., 2004b) may not hold. However, identiﬁcation does hold when
the utility residual varies over demographics (Berry and Haile, 2010) and consistency very likely
extends to this case as well.
1.2
Outline
In Section 2, I introduce the data and provide descriptive evidence. In Section 3, I present identifying
variation, replicate reduced-form ﬁndings, and discuss the impact of sorting. In Section 4, motivated
by descriptive evidence, limitations of the reduced-form, and a quantity-quality model (Becker and
Lewis, 1973) extended to include housing, I introduce the structural model. In Section 5, I discuss
estimation of the structural model. In Section 6, I deﬁne the partial and general equilibrium concepts
used to solve decompositions and counterfactual scenarios respectively. In Section 7, I present the
results of estimation, decompositions, and counterfactuals. Section 8 concludes.
2
Data and Descriptive Statistics
2.1
Data
All data except for that used to construct one of the instruments comes from the 1990 or 2000 US
Decennial Census or 2008-12 or 2018-22 5-year American Community Survey, by way of IPUMS
USA (Ruggles et al., 2025) or NHGIS (Schroeder et al., 2025).
Microdata. The fertility part of the model uses microdata and ignores its limited geographic
information. Because fertility is part of a broader living arrangement choice, the most important
information is related to household structure. Although the Census and ACS are cross-sectional and
not longitudinal, I use information on the ages of children in the household, the duration of time
spent in their current residence, and the presence of a mortgage to infer the household structure and
tenure state a decade prior. Because the US Census, like censuses across the world, under-counts
young children (U.S. Census Bureau, 2016), I re-weight the estimation sample so that it matches
age-speciﬁc decadal fertility rates based on oﬃcial estimates from the US CDC (Martin et al.,
2013; Driscoll and Hamilton, 2025), and thus the oﬃcial US total fertility rate, using the iterative
proportional ﬁtting (IPF) algorithm. I also use microdata to construct the supplementary city-level
6


Build, Baby, Build
Couillard
geographic tabulation referred to immediately below.
Geographic Tabulations. Housing demand estimation would be straightforward if the joint
distribution of households over census tract, number of bedrooms in the housing unit, and
demographics was observed. Unfortunately, it is not observable outside of US Census Bureau
Research Data Centers. Past papers in the literature have used RDC data, compromised on geography,
or compromised on demographic heterogeneity. Instead, I use a set of marginal distributions of
household counts over combinations of census tract (or the city it belongs to), number of bedrooms
in the house, and dimensions of demographic heterogeneity, which are suﬃcient statistics for the
parameters of the model. One of these marginal distributions is over all dimensions of demographic
heterogeneity considered, and the city that a census tract belongs to. I combine these marginal
distributions into a single rectangular dataset using iterative proportional ﬁtting (IPF). This estimate
of the joint distribution exactly matches the input marginals, and can thus be conveniently used
in a computational routine requiring a rectangular dataset for an estimator for which the marginal
distributions are suﬃcient statistics.
To better illustrate the data used, consider the following simple example (tables shown in Section
A1. There are four census tracts – each of which belongs to one of two cities – and two age groups
and two sexes. This is the unobserved joint distribution, depicted in Table 5’s “Population” column.
Because this joint distribution is unobserved, we would instead use three marginal distributions in
Table 6: tract by age, tract by sex, and age by sex by city. These marginal distributions could be
used directly in a bespoke maximum likelihood estimation routine, or they could ﬁrst be combined
into a rectangular estimate of the joint distribution using IPF (Table 5’s right-most column) to be
passed into a more standard maximum likelihood estimation routine.
Explanatory variables used in housing demand estimation and data for reduced-form analysis –
rents, share single-family homes, fertility rates (Section 3.1) – are also constructed using census
tract tabulations.
Rents. I use rents to measure housing costs, which as a ﬂow cost are more conceptually appealing
than house prices while being highly correlated with house prices and mortgage payments. The
Census Bureau produces tabulations of occupied housing units by census tract and nominal rent
bins; from these I estimate the median nominal rent using a linear cumulative density function and
convert to real terms, and I scale as necessary to match year-bedroom averages in the microdata.
Railway Noise. Noise pollution from railways is used to construct one of two instruments for
rents used in this paper; a discussion of identifying assumptions is deferred. The US Department of
Transportation published the average daily noise in decibels from trains in 2018 over a ﬁne grid.
This measure is calculated based on a noise model that takes train microdata as an input. Data is
coded as missing if the noise is less than 45 decibels (roughly ambient background noise), which I
replace with 40 decibels.
7


Build, Baby, Build
Couillard
Consolidated Census Tracts. Because census tracts are redrawn for each census, I construct a
balanced panel of about 48,000 neighborhoods by minimally aggregating census tracts to create
consistent units3. That is, if a 1990 tract is split into two for the 2000 census, I take the 1990 tract as
the unit and aggregate as necessary in later years to generate counts for that unit.
2.2
Descriptive Statistics
Housing and Fertility are Jointly Chosen. Anecdotal evidence abounds for the idea that housing
and fertility are jointly chosen: young couples often time home purchases and moves with starting a
family. In Figure 1, I show the results of a regression of a birth indicator on housing characteristics
that captures the strength of this correlation. When all housing characteristics are moved from
the non-family-friendly value to the family-friendly value, the conditional probability of giving
birth increases from less than 1% to nearly 20%, compared with a mean of 11%. This non-causal
relationship is economically signiﬁcant, and so we could learn a lot from a framework that respects
this joint determination.
The Relative Price of Family-Friendly Housing is Increasing. North American parenting
norms dictate that each child have a separate bedroom, and so the normative demand for bedrooms
is linear in fertility. However, in addition to the rise of housing costs in general, these larger sizes
have been growing more expensive relative to one bedroom units. In Figure 2, I plot diﬀerences in
year-bedroom ﬁxed eﬀects from a rent regression that controls for location. After a period of rent
compression over 1990-2000, 2 bedroom and especially 3+ bedroom units became substantially
more expensive than 1 bedroom units.
Household Size Drives Housing Demand.The size of a family household does not depend
on the presence of minor children alone. Family households may be multi-generational, include
adult children, include other adult family members or close friends, or may be headed by a parent
whose relationship with the other parent has ended in divorce or separation. These other dimensions
comprise additional sources of variation in the size of the household, and the size of the household
is a primary determinant of the amount of living space demanded. In Figure 3, I plot by family size
the CDF of bedroom count, which varies widely.
Household Formation is Declining, Driven by 20-29 Year Olds. Because very few children
are conceived by parents who are themselves still living with their parents, a young adult’s decision
to live with their parents – to not form a new household of some kind – is tantamount to a decision
not to have children. In Figure 4, I separate all adults (left panel) and 20-29 year olds (right panel)
3Due to small imperfections in the geospatial data representing census tracts, there are a number of tiny splits when
comparing tract vintages that are in fact meaningless. I ignore splits that imply a tract is crossing a county border (which
is impossible), is home to zero people (based on a spatial merge of census block population data as points), comprise
less than 5% of the area of any of the units involved, or which cross Public Use Microdata Area (PUMA) boundaries
(which is important for a technical estimation reason discussed in Section A9.2).
8


Build, Baby, Build
Couillard
Figure 1: Results of a regression of having given birth in the last year on a vector of housing characteristics
and city-year-age ﬁxed eﬀects: Birthi = β Housingi + FEcity-year-age(i) + ϵi. Census and ACS microdata,
ﬁltered to women aged 26-33 who are household heads or partners of the household head. Results are
arranged to show how the conditional expectation of the probability of having given birth increases when all
housing variables are cumulatively switched to the family-friendly value: starting with the constant, moving
from 1 bedroom up to 5 bedrooms, from renter to owner, from all other structures to single-family detached,
and having moved to the unit in the last 5 years. The conditional expectation when all housing variables are
set to the non-family-friendly values, at the mean, and when all housing variables are set to the family-friendly
values, are depicted with grey horizontal lines.
into (1) the head or the partner of the head of a family household, (2) a member of a non-family
household (or in group quarters), and (3) a member of a family household that is not the head or
partner of the head. The shifts in the overall adult population are large: a 6pp reduction in (1) split
roughly equally between (2) and (3). In contrast, young adults have reduced (1) by 16pp, with about
three quarters of the decrease ﬂowing into (3) and only one quarter ﬂowing into (2). Declining
fertility is likely caused by declining household formation to some extent, and so it is important to
consider how housing costs may keep young adults living at home.
The Burden of Declining Household Formation Doesn’t Just Fall on Parents. A key concept
in the model is the “extra” family member: a co-residing adult who is not a young adult child of
the household head. However, these people will still serve to increase the size of the household
and cause it to demand more housing. The share of people who are extra family members has
increased by about 3pp from 1990 to 2020, and the share of family households that are hosting
one has increased by about 9pp to nearly 30% in 2020. Accommodating this phenomenon is an
important technical challenge of this paper.
9


Build, Baby, Build
Couillard
Figure 2: Results of a ﬁxed eﬀects regression: Rentjbt = αbt + αjb + αjt + ϵjbt, with diﬀerences in ˆαbt
plotted. Rent is measured in decadal rent (120 times monthly rent) in 2022 USD, the same measure used in
structural estimation. Further details are in Section 2.1.
Figure 3: Cumulative distribution functions over bedrooms – from studio to 5 or more bedrooms – separately
by family size. By deﬁnition, there is no such thing as a family household with only one member. Using
pooled Census and ACS microdata, 1990-2022.
Non-Traditional Family Structures Are Increasing In Frequency. For centuries, Western life
courses followed a simple sequence: birth to married parents in a two-adult household; departure in
10


Build, Baby, Build
Couillard
Figure 4: Shares of all adults (left) and 20-29 year olds in three categories: head or partner of the head of a
family household, a member of a non-family household, or a member of a family household that is not the
head or the partner of the head. Census and ACS microdata.
Figure 5: Extra family members are those who are not the head, partner of the head, or child of the head
younger than 30. Left: share of population that is an extra. Right: share of family households that host an
extra. Census and ACS microdata.
young adulthood; then marriage and children in another two-adult household. In recent decades
this pattern has weakened under the “Second Demographic Transition,” marked by “sustained
11


Build, Baby, Build
Couillard
subreplacement fertility, a multitude of living arrangements other than marriage, a disconnection
between marriage and procreation, and no stationary population” (Lesthaeghe, 2014). Figure 6
traces the SDT’s progress since 1990 in household structure. I deﬁne: (1) a traditional family as a
household where the head’s partner is present and the only other members are children up to age
19; (2) a non-family household as one where no two members are married or related; and (3) a
non-traditional family as a family household where the head’s partner is absent, a 20–29-year-old
adult child co-resides, or an extra family member resides. The share living in a traditional family
fell by 8pp since 1990, as 5pp shifted to non-traditional families and 3pp to non-family households.
Traditional families, a plurality in the early 1990s, are now nearly 10pp below non-families and only
2pp above non-traditional families.
Absent the SDT, studying the eﬀect of housing costs on fertility would be simpler because
families would be more homogeneous. Instead, evidence already ties rising housing costs to delayed
household formation among young adults and plausibly contributes to more multi-adult family
arrangements. Ignoring the SDT would either restrict analysis to an ever-smaller, unrepresentative
minority or miscode actual household sizes, distorting housing demand. I therefore specify a
dynamic model of housing and fertility in which departures from the traditional structure are
endogenous4 and jointly determined with housing costs and fertility. Because unit size aﬀects
living-arrangement and fertility decisions diﬀerently, this structure is necessary to identify the
fertility eﬀects of policies targeting large versus small units – this paper’s central aim.
3
Reduced-Form Analysis
In this section, I replicate the reduced-form negative relationship between housing costs and fertility,
and show that fertility is more responsive to the cost of larger housing units. I use the same
identifying variation as in structural estimation: shifts in the amenity value of substitutable locations
that prompt equilibriating shifts in rents – the “donut IV” of Bayer et al. (2007). Finally, I discuss
the reduced-form estimand and its limitations: even with experimental variation, the estimated
causal eﬀect of local housing costs on local fertility includes high-fertility families sorting into
low-cost places and away from high-cost areas.
4Young-adult co-residence and extra family members are endogenous; partnership dissolution is exogenous and
measured by to age-varying divorce rates over time.
12


Build, Baby, Build
Couillard
Figure 6: I use the Census Bureau deﬁnition of family households: one where at least two members are
married or related by blood. I deﬁne “Traditional Families” as family households where the partner of the
head is present and adult children and extra family members are not present, and “Non-Traditional Families” as
family households where at least one of the preceding conditions does not hold. Census and ACS microdata.
3.1
Regression Equation and OLS Results
I regress tract-level general fertility rates (GFR)5 on the log of local median rents for 1 and 3+
bedroom units using the four-decade panel (1990, 2000, 2010, 2020) of consistent census tracts j
described in Section 2.1. I present results using diﬀerent sets of ﬁxed eﬀects – state, city, county,
and tract, each with year ﬁxed eﬀects – and standard errors clustered by tract.
GFRjt = αFE(j),t + β ln rentb
jt + ϵjt,
b ∈{1, 3+}.
(3.1)
The results of these regressions are presented in Table 1. Coeﬃcients are stable across ﬁxed-
eﬀects speciﬁcation until tract ﬁxed eﬀects are added, which could result from the short panel (four
decades). In each regression, the coeﬃcient is negative and statistically signiﬁcant, and the 3+
bedroom coeﬃcient is between 1.6 and 3.6 times larger in magnitude than the 1 bedroom coeﬃcient.
Given an average GFR of 0.065, these correlations are relatively large: using Table 1 column (3), a
doubling of 3+ bedroom rents is correlated with a decline in GFR that is equal to 25% of the mean.
5The GFR is the number of births per female of reproductive age, generally taken to be 15-44. I calculate it as the
number of infants aged [0,1) in a tract divided by the number of women aged 15-44, scaled to match oﬃcial GFR
statistics from the CDC since the Census under-counts young children (discussed in greater detail in Section 2.1). In
contrast, the total fertility rate (TFR) is a sum of age-varying fertility rates at a point in time, providing a measure of the
lifetime fertility of a synthetic woman who lives her entire reproductive life at that point in time.
13


Build, Baby, Build
Couillard
Table 1: OLS regressions of the general fertility rate (GFR) on the rent of 1 and 3+ bedroom units, separately,
with various ﬁxed eﬀects and standard errors clustered by tract.
GFR
Fixed Eﬀects:
State, Year
City, Year
County, Year
Tract, Year
Ln(Med. Rent, 1Bed)
-0.00872∗∗∗
-0.00892∗∗∗
-0.00864∗∗∗
-0.000866∗∗∗
(0.000154)
(0.000173)
(0.000183)
(0.000170)
Ln(Med. Rent, 3+Bed)
-0.0143∗∗∗
-0.0160∗∗∗
-0.0165∗∗∗
-0.00310∗∗∗
(0.000228)
(0.000277)
(0.000303)
(0.000254)
N
177,926
177,926
177,926
177,926
3.2
Identifying Variation and 2SLS Results
The endogeneity problem is severe and multidimensional. The objective is to understand the eﬀect
of rents on fertility, but this speciﬁcation is aﬄicted by selection into treatment, heterogeneity
over owners and renters, unobserved amenities that may disproportionately attract families or
increase fertility, and a reverse-causal relationship as many large families increase demand for
larger units. Although the reduced-form can address the latter two concerns, we do not observe
separate small-area fertility rates by tenure, and even experimental variation cannot surmount the
selection problem. Before introducing the structural model that will address selection and tenure
heterogeneity, I introduce the identifying variation that I will use in structural estimation, and
estimate a baseline relationship between housing costs and fertility that is causal up to those biases.
To generate identifying variation in rents, I turn to the donut instrument, the spatial version of
the BLP (1995) instrument that was ﬁrst introduced by Bayer et al. (2007). The donut IV is an
average of amenities in a donut-shaped region around a focal tract. Neighborhoods suﬃciently near
are trimmed due to endogeneity concerns: people may have preferences over amenities in a region
around the focal tract. Neighborhoods suﬃciently distant are trimmed due to strength concerns:
they are much less substitutable and provide little power in the ﬁrst stage6.
The donut instrument generates identifying variation by shifting the quality of substitutable
(nearby) locations, which shifts willingness to pay for and the market-clearing rent of the focal
tract. If the amenity value of substitutes increases, then rents in a focal tract must decline in order
to restore equilibrium (and vice versa), provided that housing supply is not perfectly elastic. In
structural estimation, the exclusion restriction is mean-independence of the donut instrument and
unobserved characteristics of the focal tract, which is satisﬁed if the donut region is distant enough
that any spatial correlation between the donut amenity and unobserved amenities of the focal tract
6This is similar to Gandhi and Houde (2019), who construct stronger BLPL IVs using only products nearby in
characteristic space. Physical proximity is a heuristic for characteristic proximity due to spatial autocorrelation.
14


Build, Baby, Build
Couillard
has fallen to zero but near enough that tracts in the donut region are still substitutable with the focal
tract. Although we cannot evaluate the spatial correlation between the instrument and the error term
because the latter is unobservable, we can use a simple model and the facts that the median move
distance is about 16-24km and about 75% of moves are within-metro to make an educated guess of
about 20-30km for the median residential search radius (with details in Section A2). Too far beyond
this distance it is implausible that the substitution mechanism is driving a ﬁrst stage, and too far
below we run the risk of violating the exclusion restriction.
I consider two amenities to use as the basis for a donut instrument: noise pollution from railways,
and the share of housing units that are single-family detached homes. I also consider various
distances over which to construct the instruments. It is important to emphasize once more that the
identifying assumption is not that these amenities measured in the focal tract are valid instruments
for rent in the focal tract: then the exclusion restriction would be that the amenity has no eﬀect on
sorting utility outside of rents, which implies that it is not actually amenity and cannot form the basis
for a donut instrument. A suitable amenity causes sorting to that location – hence the consideration
of the share single-family, an amenity that was already in the sorting model. However, the share
single-family is a proxy for many amenities which could be spatially correlated with the error term
at longer distances, motivating a comparison with a more precisely-deﬁned amenity: noise pollution.
Noise pollution is diﬃcult to consistently measure across an entire country at a ﬁne spatial scale, but
transportation networks can be modeled such that precise local estimates of transportation-based7
noise pollution can be formed. Because railways are lines and not points, railway noise is more
spatially autocorrelated and thus will have stronger spatial correlations with other things in the
regression error term and require longer distances when calculating the donut instrument.
Given the regression speciﬁcation and instrument deﬁnition, the 2SLS estimator is characterized
by the following system of equations:
GFRjt = αco(j),t + β ln(rentb
jt) + γxjt + ϵjt
ln(rentb
jt) = πzzD
jt + πxxjt + πco(j),t + ηjt
(3.2)
zD
jt =
P
k:d(j,k)∈D Hktxkt
P
k:d(j,k)∈D Hkt
.
for
b ∈{1, 3+},
xjt ∈{single-familyjt, rail noisej},
D ∈{[0, 1), [1, 2), ...}.
I show ﬁrst stage regression results in Figure 7, where standard errors are clustered by census
tract. For each combination of endogenous variable and instrument, the focal tract amenity (blue
dashed line) has the right sign. Although the instrument has a coeﬃcient of essentially zero when
7Road, rail, and aviation noise are all available, but road noise instruments are weak and aviation noise instruments
fail sign diagnostics.
15


Build, Baby, Build
Couillard
donut share single-family is used to instrument 3+ bedroom rents, all three other speciﬁcations
have large regions where the coeﬃcient has the right sign, is stable, and is strong according the
Olea-Pﬂueger Eﬀective F-statistic and critical values.
Second stage results are in Figure 8. The weak ﬁrst stage when donut share single-family is used
to instrument 3+ bedroom rents generates a very wide conﬁdence interval (including zero), which I
omit for visual clarity. In each case, the point estimate for the 3+ bedroom rent coeﬃcient lies below
the 1 bedroom rent coeﬃcient, and the diﬀerence is statistically signiﬁcant for distances below 25km
when rail noise is used to construct the instrument. Coeﬃcients are generally statistically distinct
from zero, and the 1 bedroom coeﬃcient is very similar regardless of which IV is used.
Figure 7: First stage regression coeﬃcients (y-axis) for four models over a range of distances (x-axis). Left:
rail noise is the IV; right: share single family is the IV; top: 3+ bedroom rents are explanatory variable;
bottom: 1 bedroom rents are explanatory variable. The IV coeﬃcient – amenity in the donut – is in solid red,
while the coeﬃcient on the amenity in the focal tract is in dashed blue.
Because the individual donuts so far are all quite thin – a single kilometer in width, and a radius
of many kilometers - I show results for consolidated donuts in Table 2. The rail noise instrument
is strongest overall at a range of 11-15km, while the single-family instrument is strongest for 1
bedroom rents at a range of 6-9km. These distances align with the original ﬁndings of Bayer et al.
(2007) that amenities (particularly, housing stock and land use) at a distance greater than 5km (3mi)
tend to reduce focal house prices8, and the idea that a wider radius is necessary when using rail
8I discard the results that the single-family instrument is strongest for 3+ bedroom rents at a range of about 20km
because it does not align with this pattern.
16


Build, Baby, Build
Couillard
Figure 8: 2SLS coeﬃcients (y-axis) for four models over a range of distances (x-axis). Left: rail noise is the
IV; right: share single family is the IV. Very wide conﬁdence intervals on one model omitted for visual clarity.
noise since it is more spatially autocorrelated.
Baseline rail noise results are in columns 1 and 2; I add the share single-family as a control
in columns 3 and 4, which slightly strengthens the ﬁrst stage and reduces the magnitude of the
coeﬃcients. Baseline share single-family results are in columns 5 and 6; I add rail noise as a control
in columns 7 and 8, which slightly strengthens the ﬁrst stage and increases precision. I add tract ﬁxed
eﬀects (infeasible for rail noise, which does not vary over time) in columns 9 and 10, which brings
the 3+ bedroom rent coeﬃcient into alignment with the rail noise results but causes the second stage
coeﬃcients to have the wrong sign for 1 bedroom rents (focal share single-family has the wrong sign
in the ﬁrst stage). In each case, the Anderson-Rubin test of signiﬁcance of endogenous regressors
rejects the null hypothesis, even in columns 5 and 7 when the instrument is weak.
The rail noise results suggest that, up to selection endogeneity, the semi-elasticity lies between
-0.055 and -0.065 for large unit rents and -0.03 and -0.04 for small unit rents. The share single-family
results, when the instrument is strong enough and ﬁrst stage coeﬃcients have the right sign (i.e.,
ignoring columns 5, 7, and 10), indicate the same. These results are very large in magnitude relative
to the general fertility rate average and interquartile range, 0.065 and 0.023, suggesting that sorting
bias may be substantial.
17


Build, Baby, Build
Couillard
Table 2: Consolidated donuts based on ﬁrst stage results with preferred speciﬁcations in columns 3 and 4. Baseline models in columns 1, 2, 5, and 6. I
add the other amenity as a control in columns 3, 4, 7, and 8, and tract ﬁxed eﬀects (feasible only for the single-family instrument) in columns 9 and 10.
Standard errors are clustered by tract.
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(7)
(8)
(9)
(10)
GFR
GFR
GFR
GFR
GFR
GFR
GFR
GFR
GFR
GFR
Log(Median 3+ Bed Rent)
-0.0646∗∗∗
-0.0568∗∗∗
-0.274
-0.242∗
-0.0681∗∗∗
(0.0149)
(0.0127)
(0.150)
(0.113)
(0.0119)
Log(Median 1 Bed Rent)
-0.0327∗∗∗
-0.0308∗∗∗
-0.0406∗∗∗
-0.0410∗∗∗
0.0382∗∗∗
(0.00775)
(0.00747)
(0.00753)
(0.00736)
(0.00649)
Share Single-Family
0.0121∗∗∗
0.00544∗∗∗
0.0543
0.00598∗∗∗
0.0471∗
0.00610∗∗∗
0.0128∗∗∗
0.00564∗∗
(0.00246)
(0.000719)
(0.0293)
(0.000734)
(0.0213)
(0.000693)
(0.00286)
(0.00187)
Avg Rail Noise (dB)
-0.0000772
0.0000492
0.0000201
0.0000816∗∗
-0.000524
0.0000498
(0.0000629)
(0.0000331)
(0.0000419)
(0.0000300)
(0.000335)
(0.0000307)
Observations
186309
175035
186309
175035
186225
174984
186225
174984
186166
173945
IV
Rail, 11-15km
Rail, 11-15km
Rail, 11-15km
Rail, 11-15km
SF, 6-9km
SF, 6-9km
SF, 6-9km
SF, 6-9km
SF, 6-9km
SF, 6-9km
KP Stat
32.92
52.57
44.10
55.62
2.889
55.81
4.028
58.89
64.34
109.7
p-value: AR Test
0.00000388
0.0000123
0.00000530
0.0000247
1.59e-08
4.62e-09
3.64e-09
1.19e-09
4.33e-15
3.97e-13
Tract FEs
X
X
Standard errors in parentheses
∗p < 0.05, ∗∗p < 0.01, ∗∗∗p < 0.001
18


Build, Baby, Build
Couillard
3.3
Sorting Bias and SUTVA Violation
The reduced-form estimand is the causal eﬀect of rents on fertility rates in a neighborhood, without
holding constant the composition of the neighborhood, because large and small families sort
diﬀerently over rent. If we are interested in understanding the aggregate eﬀect of rents on fertility
rates, we need a diﬀerent estimand: the causal eﬀect of rents on fertility, without a sorting bias.
Econometrically, specifying a reduced-form relationship between local fertility and local rents
when (1) fertility and housing are chosen jointly, (2) there are latent preferences for fertility, and
(3) fertility changes housing demand results in a violation of the Stable Unit Treatment Value
Assumption. Under these assumptions, local fertility rates are a weighted average of the fertility
rates of subpopulations with diﬀerent latent preferences for fertility. The weights are determined by
the distribution of latent fertility preferences in a location, which is determined by sorting and is a
function of rents in other locations. When an outcome is a function of treatments in other units,
SUTVA is violated: we are not estimating a treatment eﬀect of rents on fertility rates that holds
everything else constant. Rents aﬀect the fertility rates of the subpopulations, but also the weight
placed on each subpopulation since each group sorts to or away from that location at diﬀerent rates
due to their heterogeneous preferences over rent. The full argument is in Section A3.
I now provide empirical evidence that fertility and housing are chosen jointly in Table 3 (in
addition to to Figure 1). First, I regress a birth indicator on a moving indicator, conditioning on
ﬁxed eﬀects for year-age-tenure, current location, and location one year ago. This speciﬁcation
holds constant any location-speciﬁc factors – related to where she lives now, or where she did one
year prior – that could aﬀect fertility. I ﬁnd that a woman who moves in a given year is 0.79pp more
likely to also give birth in that year, which is an increase of 14.5% over the sample probability. Next,
I regress a birth indicator on indicators for duration of residence in the current home, conditioning
on ﬁxed eﬀects for year-age-tenure-city (past location is not observed when the residence duration
exceeds one year). Here, the coeﬃcient on moving in that year is about triple, and coeﬃcients on
having moved 1-2 and 2-5 years prior are slightly larger, indicating that moving in anticipation of
having children is slightly more common than moving in the same year as having children.
I conclude that housing and fertility are chosen jointly, SUTVA is violated, and the reduced-form
estimand includes sorting bias. I now turn to the structural model that is intended to remedy the bias.
4
Model
The architecture of the structural model is motivated by the descriptive facts in Section 2, discussion
of the reduced-form in Section 3, and now, the economics of housing and fertility. I begin by
discussing the results of extending Becker and Lewis’s (1973) quantity-quality model to include
19


Build, Baby, Build
Couillard
Table 3: Reduced-form evidence that housing and fertility are chosen jointly. Moving is signiﬁcantly
correlated with giving birth in that year, and in the next several years. Using ACS microdata, 2005-2022.
Robust standard errors.
(1)
(2)
Birth in Last Year
Birth in Last Year
Residence: [0, 1) Years
0.00786∗∗∗
(0.000277)
0.0247∗∗∗
(0.000295)
Residence: [1, 2) Years
0.0276∗∗∗
(0.000353)
Residence: [2, 5) Years
0.0249∗∗∗
(0.000230)
Residence: [5,10) Years
0.0127∗∗∗
(0.000204)
Observations
11856932
11817377
Mean LHS
0.0541
0.0541
FE1
Year-Age-Tenure
Year-Age-Tenure-City
FE2
PUMA, Current
FE3
PUMA, 1Yr Ago
Standard errors in parentheses
∗p < 0.05, ∗∗p < 0.01, ∗∗∗p < 0.001
housing. I then show how the structural model on a broad level accommodates these takeaways and
provides a mechanism where high housing costs disincentivize fertility. Then, I discuss the details
of the state, choice set, and state transition, which accommodate additional dynamic mechanisms of
rising importance during the Second Demographic Transition. I then provide details about housing
demand.
4.1
Quantity-Quality With Housing
After it was ﬁrst sketched in Becker (1960), the quantity-quality tradeoﬀwas formalized by Becker
and Lewis (1973). The key element is that the cost of childrearing that enters the budget constraint
is a product of the quantity of children and the pecuniary cost of the quality of children, where both
quantity and quality also enter preferences. Then, if the income elasticity of child quality exceeds
the income elasticity of child quantity, an increase in income will generate a reduction in fertility,
even when the income elasticity of child quantity is positive.
To add housing to this framework, I deﬁne the housing choice variable as housing per child h,
which enters preferences and creates an additional quantity-quality term in total housing expenditure
nrh, quantity of children times cost of a unit of housing times housing per child. This term joins the
standard quantity-quality term ni in the budget constraint, where per-child investment i is mapped
to child quality q by an increasing function f. The parent’s optimization problem is then
max
n,q,c,h U(n, q, c, h)
subject to
c + ni + nrh = y
and
q = f(i), f ′ > 0.
(4.1)
20


Build, Baby, Build
Couillard
Under the assumptions that all goods are normal and have positive and declining marginal utility,
we can easily see that the larger is the housing cost r, the more severe is the quantity-quality tradeoﬀ
related to housing, and the higher is the shadow price of fertility rh which reduces fertility via both
the income and substitution eﬀect.
The following results are proven in Section A4. Adding the assumptions that fertility is weakly
separable from the other goods and that the elasticity of h and i with respect to n exceeds -1 (i.e.,
that total housing and investment increases with the number of children), the optimal choice of
all other goods decreases with n: less parental consumption, less per-child quality, less per-child
housing. Then, the agent is pushed back onto a steeper part of the utility function, and thus has a
stronger taste for the numeraire to spend on parental consumption and child quality, a stronger taste
for a marginal unit of housing, and greater total housing consumption. These are the very patterns
that the structural model is intended to exploit using heterogeneity in housing demand parameters.
4.2
Overview
This is a dynamic model of living arrangement (including fertility) and housing choice. Given a
state and vector of iid preference shocks, the value is that of the best option in the choice set:
V (x, ϵi) = max
g∈G(x),h{vx
gh + ϵi
gh}
where
(g, h, x) = (living arrangement, housing, state)
(4.2)
We assume that the ﬂow of each option can be written as a sum of housing utility u and living
arrangement utility α. We further assume that an agent’s preferences for housing options depends
on both their state entering the period and their choice. The value of each option is the sum of ﬂow
utility and the discounted expected future value of the option, which depends on the inclusive value
of each future state and the probability of transitioning to each state. Notably, we assume that the
housing choice does not aﬀect these state transition probabilities:
vx
gh = uτ(g,x)
h
+ αx
g
|
{z
}
ﬂow utility
+ δE


X
x′
π(x′ | g, x)
|
{z
}
state transition
× ln

X
h′
X
g′∈G(x′)
exp(vx′
g′h′)


|
{z
}
inclusive value
 Wt(x)
| {z }
infot


|
{z
}
continuation value ≡cxg
.
(4.3)
The assumptions that housing and fertility preferences are additively separable, and that the
housing choice does not impact state transition, is essentially an assumption that moving costs on
a decadal scale are negligible and that agents can frictionlessly re-optimize their housing choices
in each period, which substantially improves tractability. The assumption that preferences over
21


Build, Baby, Build
Couillard
housing depend on living arrangement captures that the presence and quantity of children (and
other dimensions of living arrangement) signiﬁcantly aﬀect how agents value housing options. We
assume that preferences are linear over characteristics, with coeﬃcients indexed by housing demand
type τ, which is mapped into by the living arrangement state and choice:
uτ
h = X′
hβτ + ξτ
h,
where
h = (neighborhood, bedrooms)
(4.4)
Heterogeneity in housing preferences is the means by which housing characteristics shape
fertility choices. The quantity-quality model predicts that larger families will have a more negative
rent coeﬃcient, and a greater taste for additional bedrooms. A shift in rents for all units, or just the
largest units, negatively impacts the value of being a large family the most.
However, as was shown in the descriptives section, the size of a family also depends on adult
children and other family members, as well as whether both parents are present, and so all of these
dimensions can also generate heterogeneity in housing preferences. If housing costs aﬀect these
outcomes, there are additional channels that housing costs can aﬀect the value of adding to the size
of the family through having children. Omitting these channels would then provide an incomplete
picture, and excluding these determinants of family size would require either using an estimation
sample that is small and shrinking through the sample period or one in which a growing proportion
of agents are inaccurately re-coded.
I thus specify a rich model of living arrangement choice and household formation. Adult
children are agents that can remain with the family, form roommate households, or start families
themselves. Agents can also choose to live in the household of some other family member. High
housing costs disincentivize the formation of family or roommate households, causing agents to join
other households, altering the housing preferences of the hosting decisionmakers. By increasing the
likelihood that children remain with the family for multiple decades, high housing costs disincentivize
having children, independently of the eﬀect of childrearing on ﬂow utility, and regardless of the
inherent utility of having children. Likewise, starting a family increases the likelihood that other
family members will unilaterally join the household, and high housing costs increase the probability
of this outcome conditional on that choice, disproportionately hurting the value of having children
through another channel. (I treat partnership dissolution as exogenous.) I describe the details of
these dynamics in the next two subsections.
4.3
State and Choice Set
The complete state is
22


Build, Baby, Build
Couillard
x = (year, foreign/native-born, family, owner, age,
lost partner, kids aged 10-19, kids aged 20-29, extras)
Year, foreign/native-born, age, and lost partner are exogenous; everything else is endogenous. The
unrestricted choice set is
G = {group quarters, with parents, with other family, alone,
1 roommate, ..., ¯s −1 roommates, have 0 kids, have 1 kid, ..., ¯n kids, buy house}.
The ﬁrst three options provide zero housing utility and can only be chosen in non-family,
non-owner states. “Group quarters” means some form of institutional living (hospital, military
barracks, college dorm, prison, etc.) and is included for completeness and to hold the tendency for
people to live in such an environment – by choice or otherwise – constant in counterfactuals. “With
parents” means choosing to remain with the household headed by the parents to which one was
born; it is available only in the second and third decade of life (ﬁrst and second decade of being an
agent with the ability to choose). “With other family” means living as an extra family member in
some other family; availability of this option does not depend on age.
An agent can choose to live in a non-family household – that is, alone or with unrelated
roommates – if the state is non-family.
Starting a family, taking a partner of the same age, and having one or more kids are all
synonymous, and is available if the state is in the second through ﬁfth decades of life. If the state is
family or the choice is to start a family, an agent can also buy a house9. A family that has lost one of
the partners cannot have additional kids.
4.4
State Transition
The year and age advance one decade per decade; foreign/native-born status is immutable.
The stock of children of each age evolves according to a binomial distribution that uses the
previous-period, previous-age stock of children and the endogenous probability that adult children
of that type chooses to live with parents. For the number of children aged 10-19,
Pr(n10−19 = k|x, n0−9,t−1) =

n0−9,t−1!
k!(n0−9,t−1 −k)!
  P 10−19,t,imm(x)
par
k
×
 1 −P 10−19,t,imm(x)
par
(n0−9,t−1)−k ,
(4.5)
9For simplicity, only families can buy a house. Otherwise, one roommate would be the owner and the other unrelated
roommates would be paying rent – rare and diﬃcult to model.
23


Build, Baby, Build
Couillard
and analogously for those aged 20-29.
The number of extras evolves according to a diﬀerent binomial distribution. I assume that the
total number of extras that live with households of a certain type is the product of the total number of
people choosing to live as extras and a time-invariant share of extras going to each household type;
this is the number of trials. I assume that every agent in a household type has an equal probability of
hosting each extra so that the binomial distribution probability parameter is the reciprocal of the
number of agents in that household type. The total number of extras is:
N t
extras =
X
˜x
N ˜xtP ˜xt
extra.
(4.6)
The share of extras going to each “extras group” w(˜x) is:
sw(˜x) =
P
t
P
˜x′:w(˜x′)=w(˜x) N ˜x′te(x′)
P
t
P
˜x′′ N ˜x′′te(x′′)
.
(4.7)
The number of extras going to households of a given type is the product:
N w(˜x),t
extras = sw(˜x)N t
extras.
(4.8)
Then the distribution uses this number of trials, and the reciprocal of the agent count in an extras
group as the probability:
Pr(extras = e|x) =


N w(˜x),t
extras !
e!

N w(˜x),t
extras −e

!



1
N w(˜x),t
e 
1 −
1
N w(˜x),t
Nw(˜x),t
extras
−e
.
(4.9)
There is an exogenous probability of a partnership dissolving that varies over time and age. If
a partnership does dissolve, there is a 50% probability of being the partner that remains with the
family, and a 50% probability of being the partner that reverts to a non-family state.
If all children leave the household and there are no extras then both partners revert to non-family.
If they were owners, they revert to renters.
A non-family household may receive extras and become a family household for a decade.
4.5
Housing
Given the assumptions on the structure of v, a standard residential choice model can be derived, and I
show this in Section A5. Because preferences for housing characteristics are heterogeneous in a way
that is linked to fertility choice, changes in housing characteristics generate heterogeneous changes
in values of fertility options and thus heterogeneous changes in fertility behavior. Particularly, larger
24


Build, Baby, Build
Couillard
families’ stronger preferences over rent and size will combine with rising average and large-unit
rents to generate decreases in fertility.
The utility of tract-bedroom (j, b) = h housing option is linear in observables. I provide results
for models with and without railway noise, but always include railway noise for exposition. Housing
characteristics include the rent r, bedrooms b, single family share m, railway noise level x, a
city-year-type ﬁxed eﬀect ϕ, and a demographic-varying unobserved utility ξ.
uτ
jbt = βτ
r rjbt + βτ
b + βτ
mmjt + βτ
xxj + ϕτ
c(j),t + ξτ
jbt.
(4.10)
Housing demand type has four dimensions, and an additively-separable structure is placed on
the linear coeﬃcients:
τ = (age, tenure, family/non-family, size) = (a, e, f, s),
βτ = β + βa + βe + βf + βs (4.11)
This structure assists with interpretability and is required for the later suﬃcient statistics results.
Notably, it is not placed on ϕτ
c(j)t, which is allowed to vary freely over (j, t, a, e, f, s). This ﬁxed
eﬀect also proxies as a city-level shock to fertility utility, since it captures the value of being a large
(or small) family in a speciﬁc city at a speciﬁc time.
5
Estimation
5.1
Housing Demand: Motivation and Discussion
Given that the necessary data for micro-BLP estimation is available – marginal distributions of
household counts over neighborhoods and individual dimensions of demographic heterogeneity
– using a standard estimator would be a natural approach, and would be a contribution to urban
economics since it has not yet been done. However, the standard estimator constrains unobservable
utility ξj to be homogeneous over demographics, and when the number of micro-moments is large
this implies testable restrictions that hold with zero probability when the true data-generating
process allows ξτ
j to vary over demographics. Instead, I use arguments pioneered by the Iterative
Proportional Fitting (IPF) literature to show that these marginal distributions are suﬃcient statistics
for the two-step Bayer et al. (2007) estimator when the residual varies over demographics10.
As summarized by Conlon and Gortmaker (2023) there are many forms that micro-moments can
take, some of which grow with the number of options J, and it is this growth with J that leads to
model mis-speciﬁcation. The form considered in this paper, and which are used in the suﬃcient
10I.e., the marginal distributions provides equivalent estimates to those one obtains when using microdata or the
tabulated joint distribution.
25


Build, Baby, Build
Couillard
statistics argument, is probability of choosing an option j conditional on one of the dimensions of
demographics D taking value d, or Pr(j|D = d). As the number of options J increases, the set
of micro-moments increases by more than one (depending on the speciﬁcation of demographics),
while the number of parameters is constant and the number of error terms increases by only one. At
a certain point, the parameters and errors – the data-generating process – will be unable to generate
the observed data. The model will then be mis-speciﬁed, and the identiﬁcation and consistency
results that apply to correctly-speciﬁed models (Berry and Haile, 2014; Berry et al., 2004b) will not
apply. A formal proof of this argument is available in Section A6.
In addition to preventing mis-speciﬁcation and providing certainty that foundational identiﬁcation
and consistency results apply, demographic-varying residuals are useful for several other reasons.
First, abstracting from mis-speciﬁcation, models with demographic-varying residuals explain the
data more and demand less from the extreme-value shocks ϵ. The extreme-value shocks are assumed
to be iid over individuals, but if a demographic-varying residual is non-zero, then we can conclude
that there is unused information in the demographics that refutes that assumption. With demographic-
varying residuals, the extreme-value shocks are more likely to be truly idiosyncratic because we have
conditioned on demographics to a greater extent. Second, without demographic-varying residuals,
unobserved utility is a measure of purely vertical diﬀerentiation. Once demographic-varying
residuals are added, unobserved utility may be primarily vertical, or diﬀerent groups may have
diﬀerent rankings of the options – the data will determine which is true. Finally, the demographic-
varying residual may be held constant in counterfactual analysis in order to better understand the
diﬀerences between factual and counterfactual behavior for diﬀerent groups.
I accommodate demographic-varying residuals – in the case where the joint distribution of
choice and demographics is unobserved – by exploiting the suﬃciency of the marginal distributions
for the ﬁrst-step maximum-likelihood estimator of Bayer et al. (2007)11 under additive separability
11This estimator is analogous to that of Berry et al. (1995) but with observed heterogeneity instead of unobserved
heterogeneity in the sense that the heterogeneity and a baseline utility ﬁxed eﬀect are estimated in a ﬁrst stage, and
the baseline utility is decomposed to obtain the full distribution of preferences in a second step. In the case of BLP,
we assume that the shocks on the coeﬃcients are iid; in the case of BFM we assume that the demographic residual
relative to the baseline residual ξτ
j −ξj is mean-independent of explanatory variables in order to consistently estimate
heterogeneity in the ﬁrst stage – in both estimators the instrument targets endogeneity in the shared unobserved utility ξj.
In this case, this assumption may be violated if neighborhoods that have amenities disproportionately valued by
families (or which increase fertility) also have higher large-unit rents, or conversely if neighborhoods that have amenities
disproportionately valued by singles (or which reduce fertility) also have higher small-unit rents. The former pattern
would serve to reduce the extent of heterogeneity in rent-sensitivity and cause counterfactuals to be understated, while
the latter would increase the extent of heterogeneity in rent-sensitivity and cause counterfactuals to be overstated.
Because I include the share single-family in part to guard against this, and because it is a prior unclear which of the
countervailing eﬀects would dominate, it does not seem to be a major concern.
Regardless, one could avoid these concerns by estimating observed-heterogeneity logit models with 2SLS if the
joint distribution of choices and demographics is observed and there are no ﬁnite sample zeros, or with the Poisson
instrumental variables estimator of Mullahy (1997) if there are ﬁnite sample zeros. Although I have not proven it,
it seems likely that the Mullahy (1997) estimator would remain consistent if the joint distribution of choices and
26


Build, Baby, Build
Couillard
of preferences (Equation 4.11). Heuristically, for any (non-error) term that enters the Poisson
estimating equation, we must observe a count with the same indexes12. This result uses only a simple
manipulation of the log-likelihood, illustrated in a simple example in Section A7 and applied to my
housing model in Section A9.4. Because the baseline utilities δ are identical, the second-step 2SLS
estimator returns identical coeﬃcients. Because the marginal distributions are suﬃcient, any joint
distribution that aggregates into those marginal distributions provides the same estimates as those of
the true joint distribution when passed into an estimation routine that accepts rectangular datasets. I
thus use IPF to combine the marginal distributions into a single rectangular estimate of the joint
distribution in a preliminary step. Because this step is equivalent to maximizing a likelihood, this
estimated joint distribution is also suﬃcient for some linear estimators, which I show in Section A8.
5.2
Housing Demand: Execution
As discussed above, I add a preliminary step to the two-step estimator of Bayer et al. (2007). I now
discuss each step in turn: IPF estimation of the unobserved joint distribution, ML estimation of
preference heterogeneity, and 2SLS estimation of baseline preferences.
5.2.1
IPF
I obtain an estimate of the tabulation of households H over tract j, number of bedrooms b, age
of head a, tenure e, family/non-family indicator f, and size s for each of the four decades t in the
panel by running the IPF algorithm13 on a set of marginal distributions, where the ﬁrst four marginal
distributions are distributions of households over a subset of those dimensions and the ﬁfth is the
joint distribution at a higher level of geography: pt(j), the Public Use Microdata Area (PUMA)
identiﬁer from PUMA vintage t that consistent census tract j is mapped to. I run the algorithm in
FORTRAN90, in parallel over PUMA-years, to a tolerance of 10−10.
ˆHaefs
jbt
= IPF(Hfs
jt , Hes
jt , Haf
jt , He
jbt, Haefs
pt(j),b,t)
(5.1)
demographics were not observed and an IPF-estimated joint distribution were used in its place.
12In a simpliﬁed context with options j and demographic heterogeneity over age a and sex s, the Poisson estimating
equation is
N as
j
= exp(αas + xj(β + βa + βs) + ξas
j )
where the ﬁxed eﬀect αas captures both the logit denominator and the total number of agents of each type N as, and
is necessary for logit-Poisson equivalence (Figueirdo et al, 2003). By inspecting this equation, we can see what data
is necessary: (αas, xjβ, xjβa, xjβs) =⇒(N as, Nj, N a
j , N s
j ), where notably N a
j and N s
j both aggregate into Nj
and so only the former are required to be passed into estimation. This example shows the general pattern: we need to
observe the marginal distributions of choice with individual dimensions of heterogeneity N a
j and N s
j , and the marginal
distributions of heterogeneity but without choice N as.
13The algorithm consists of scaling cells in a guessed joint distribution as necessary to ﬁt input marginals, looping
over the set of marginals until convergence.
27


Build, Baby, Build
Couillard
I additionally convert estimated households ˆH to estimated decision-making agents N (Section
A9.1) and remove some variation from rents so that the suﬃciency result applies (Section A9.2).
5.2.2
MLE
For maximum-likelihood estimation of heterogeneity parameters, I exploit logit-Poisson equiva-
lence14 (Figueiredo et al., 2003), use the total number of housing units Hjt as an exposure variable
(Section A9.3), and collect baseline utility into a single term δjbt:
N τ
jbt = Hjt exp
 βτ
r rjbt + βτ
b + βτ
mmjt + βτ
xxj + ϕτ
c(j),t + ξτ
jbt

=
exp

δjbt + (βτ
r −βr)rjbt + (βτ
b −βb) + (βτ
m −βm)mjt
(5.2)
+ (βτ
x −βx)xj + (ϕτ
c(j),t −ϕc(j),t) + (ξτ
jbt −ξjbt)

.
The exposure variable is absorbed into baseline utility. Due to computational constraints, I randomly
divide the data into four subsets15 for estimation, obtain a consistent estimator for the linear
heterogeneity parameters by averaging the estimate from all subsets, and then partial out these
parameters and regressors to obtain a consistent estimator for δjbt in a ﬁnal Poisson likelihood
maximization.
5.2.3
2SLS
Because the exposure variable was absorbed into mean utility, exposure can be corrected simply
by subtracting ln Hjt from δjbt, and so the system of equations that deﬁnes the second step16 is as
follows:
δjbt −ln Hjt = βrrjbt + βb + βmmjt + βxxj + ϕc(j),t + ξjbt
rjbt = πb + πmmjt + πxxj + πzzD
jt + πc(j),t + ηjbt
(5.3)
zD
jt =
P
k:d(j,k)∈D Hktxk
P
k:d(j,k)∈D Hkt
.
Besides the outcome variable, there are other diﬀerences between this and the reduced-form
14As Figueiredo et al. (2003) showed, the logit and Poisson likelihoods have the same maximizers. This is convenient
because it means that many logit estimators can be computed using more generic and performant routines that tolerate
ﬁnite-sample zeros. It also raises the possibility of using the Poisson instrumental variable estimator of Mullahy (1997)
when ﬁnite-sample zeros and endogeneity are present and joint estimation is desired.
15I thus conservatively adjust standard errors for the linear heterogeneity parameters by a factor of
√
4 = 2 to
accommodate the additional variance of the estimator.
16This system of equations describes the case where rail noise is the IV and xj is in the model. When share
single-family is the IV, rail noise is not in the model and zD
jt is constructed using mjt.
28


Build, Baby, Build
Couillard
speciﬁcation. Here, the outcome variable is indexed by the number of bedrooms, allowing bedroom
ﬁxed eﬀects and the rents of diﬀerent size units to all enter the model. I allow rent to enter linearly –
not in logs as in the reduced-form – so that preference heterogeneity captures the variation in local
slopes that is implied by the quantity-quality model in Sections 4 and A4. I also use city ﬁxed
eﬀects (CBSA, Core-Based Statistical Area) since the data used in IPF estimation is not suﬃcient
for county ﬁxed eﬀects as in the reduced-form and PUMAs lack an inherent geographic concept.
5.3
Living Arrangement and Fertility
The purpose of dynamic estimation is to estimate living arrangement utility αx
g so that it may be
held constant in decompositions and counterfactuals, thus isolating the eﬀect of the housing market
on fertility. There are four steps: kernel-smoothing of choice probabilities so that they are strictly
between zero and one, inverting αx
g + cx
g from living arrangement choices given housing utility
uτ(g,x)
h
, forming estimates of the distribution of next-period values, and simulating cx
g by taking
draws from this distribution to ﬁnally back out αx
g.
5.3.1
Kernel Smoothing
Due to the structure placed on preferences in Equation 4.3, dynamic estimation will primarily use
the probability of of choosing a particular living arrangement option, aggregating over housing
choices:
P x
g =
X
h
P x
gh.
(5.4)
The Hotz-Miller inversion will require probabilities that are strictly between zero and one. Due
to a ﬁne-grained state space, there are some states with a small number of agents and thus zero or
one probabilities, and some states with no agents at all and undeﬁned choice probabilities. I thus
use a triangular kernel smoothing estimator with bandwidths 1.1, 2.1, 2.1, and 1.117 over decade,
number of children 10-19, number of children 20-29, and extras respectively. I do not smooth over
native/foreign-born status, age, tenure, family status, or lost partner status, because of the sharply
diﬀerent behavior of agents over these dimensions18. Hereafter, I refer to the smoothed probabilities
17I choose bandwidths ending in 0.1 because it limits the inﬂuence of other observations when smoothing for the focal
observation is unnecessary, while giving other observations the same inﬂuence relative to each other when smoothing
for the focal observation is necessary.
18Natives and foreign-born have very diﬀerent fertility patterns, as do women of diﬀerent ages. Because the focus of
this paper is housing, I prefer to treat owners and renters as diﬀerently as possible. Families that are adding children are
fundamentally diﬀerent from agents making the choice to start a family, and if a family has lost one of its partners then it
is incapable of having additional children. Meanwhile, I do allow smoothing over stocks of children and extras because
a family having diﬀerent levels of these stocks is less meaningful than some fundamental change of type. I smooth over
decade because it seemed to be the least-bad marginal way to get all probabilities to be deﬁned and strictly between zero
and one.
29


Build, Baby, Build
Couillard
as P x
g to keep notation simple.
5.3.2
Hotz-Miller Inversion
Due to the structure placed on preferences in Equation 4.3, we can factor fertility utility out of the
fertility choice probability:
P x
g =
X
h
P h
gx =
exp(αx
g + cx
g) P
h exp(uτ(g,x)
h
)
P
h′
P
g′∈G(x) exp(αx
g′ + cg′ + uτ(g′,x)
h′
)
.
(5.5)
Then, we may log and diﬀerence with a reference choice for each state to isolate fertility utility:
αx
g + cx
g = ln

P zx
g
 X
h exp(uτ(g,x)
h
)

−ln

P zx
g0(x)
 X
h exp(uτ(g0(x),x)
h
)

.
(5.6)
Because there is no option that is available in every state, the values of diﬀerent states are deﬁned
relative to a diﬀerent option in each state. Speciﬁcally, the reference choice is living alone if the
state is non-family, having zero children and remaining a renter if the state is renting family, and
having zero children and remaining an owner if the state is owner family. There is one and only
one reference choice in each state. I choose these reference choices because they are in some sense
a default choice for each state, and the value of being a renting or owner family and having zero
children is to some extent already contained in the value of transitioning to a renting or owner family
by having at least one child and/or buying a house. In Section A11, I show that under an alternate
normalization results are quantitatively diﬀerent but overall robust.
5.3.3
Regression-Based Forecasting
Deﬁne the log of the living arrangement choice probability numerator as
vzx
g = αzx
g + czx
g + ln
 X
h
exp(uτ(z,x,g)
h
)
!
.
(5.7)
Letting ˜x denote the state without time t, assume that agents forecast future values as an autoregressive
process with a shared coeﬃcient, state-choice ﬁxed eﬀects, and state-choice time trends:
v˜x,t+1
g
= ρ0v˜x,t
g
+ ρ˜x
g,1 + ρ˜x
g,2t + e˜x,t+1
g
(5.8)
with R2 = 0.9891. The distribution of errors will be drawn from to simulate the continuation value.
30


Build, Baby, Build
Couillard
5.3.4
Simulating Continuation Value
We use simulation to estimate the expectation of non-linear functions. The continuation value for a
particular draw d – where we have also substituted vx′
g′ in pace of vx′
g′h′ – can be written as
cxd
g = δ
X
x′
π(x′|g, x, d) × ln

X
g′∈G(x′)
exp(vx′d
g′ )

,
(5.9)
where the draw from the value function forecast error distribution impacts the future values in a
straightforward way and the transition matrix in a more complex way through the endogenous choice
probabilities of adult children and extras.
For the probability of partnership dissolution, I interpolate the divorce rate at diﬀerent ages in
diﬀerent years to arrive at an age-varying decade-level divorce hazard rate19.
For the probability of children remaining with the household when they are 10-19 (and
analogously for 20-29), the draw aﬀects the probability parameter in the binomial distribution:
Pr(n10−19 = k|x, n0−9,t−1, d) =

n0−9,t−1!
k!(n0−9,t−1 −k)!
  P 10−19,t,imm(x),d
par
k
×
 1 −P 10−19,t,imm(x),d
par
(n0−9,t−1)−k .
(5.10)
The case of extras is thornier. To compute the probability of hosting an extra in the future, we
must have an estimate of the total number of extras in the future, which depends on the extra choice
probabilities (straightforward given the forecast and draw), and on the number of agents in each state
in the future. It is probably possible, but very burdensome, to iterate over π and include external
data on mortality and net migration to solve this using accounting properties:
N ˜x,t+1 =
X
˜x′
X
g∈G(x)
π(˜x, t + 1|˜z′, x′, g, t)N ˜x′tP ˜x′t
g
+ ∆˜x,t+1
fertility + ∆˜x,t+1
mortality + ∆˜x,t+1
net migration.
(5.11)
Instead, I take agents to form a deterministic forecast of the period-ahead distribution of agents
over states based on a regression similar to that used to forecast values:
N ˜x,t+1 = ψ0N ˜xt + ψ˜x
1 + ψ˜x
2t + e˜x,t+1.
(5.12)
191990, 2010, 2012, 2015, 2017, 2019, and 2021 compiled by the National Center for Family and Marriage Research
at Bowling Green University from CDC and ACS data (NCFMR, 2012; NCFMR, 2014; NCFMR, 2017; NCFMR, 2019;
NCFMR, 2021; NCFMR, 2023).
31


Build, Baby, Build
Couillard
Agents then approximate
N ˜x,t+1 ≈˜N ˜x,t+1 = ˆψ0N ˜xt + ˆψ˜x
1 + ˆψ˜x
2t,
(5.13)
which I consider to be an acceptable approximation since R2 = 0.9985. Simulation draws for value
function errors are used in the period-ahead choice probabilities:
˜N ˜x,t+1,d
extras
= sw(˜x) X
˜x′
˜N ˜x′,t+1P ˜x,t+1,d
extra
.
(5.14)
And ﬁnally, the probability distribution for extras conditional on an agent’s state and a vector of
simulation draws:
Pr(extras = e|˜x, t + 1, d) =

˜N w(˜x),t+1,d
extras
!
e!( ˜N w(˜x),t+1,d
extras
−e)!

1
˜N w(˜x),t+1
e
1 −
1
˜N w(˜x),t+1
 ˜
Nw(˜x),t+1,d
extras
−e
.
(5.15)
With Pr(n10−19 = k|˜x, t + 1, d), Pr(n20−29 = k|˜x, t + 1, d), and Pr(extras = e|˜x, t + 1, d)
known, we also know π(x′ | x, g, d), and we can ﬁnally estimate α as
ˆαx
g = αx
g + cx
g −δ
X
d
1
D
X
x′
π(x′ | x, g, d) × ln

X
g′∈G(x′)
exp

ˆvx′d
g′


.
(5.16)
6
Equilibrium
In the decompositions, I manipulate rents directly, holding constant the intrinsic fertility utility and
recomputing the continuation value to solve a partial equilibrium. In the counterfactuals, I add and
shift a housing supply equation, also solving for rents in general equilibrium.
6.1
Partial Equilibrium and Decomposition
A central secular trend in the last few decades in the US and other developed economies is rising
housing costs. Since housing is often the largest part of a household’s budget, this trend has
far-reaching consequences. Eﬀective housing policy, which has been lacking, would restrain the
growth of housing costs by ensuring that housing supply is elastic so that new units can be built
at low cost wherever rising demand pushes rents and prices up. Given the evidence about the
relationship between housing costs and fertility presented thus far, the question of what fertility rates
would be in a world where housing costs are not secularly increasing is of ﬁrst-order importance.
32


Build, Baby, Build
Couillard
The reduced-form literature attempts to answer this question using quasi-experimental variation
in endogenous housing costs, but sorting limits the relevance of these estimands. Therefore, the ﬁrst
set of exercises in this paper are decompositions that target rents directly and can be considered
partial equilibrium exercises. I ﬁrst set rents equal to their values in 1990 in order to understand what
the total eﬀect of rising housing costs is. Because agents respond in both their housing and living
arrangement decisions, the quantity of housing units demanded changes over size and location. Since
quantities change while rents stay ﬂat, this decomposition can also be thought of as a counterfactual
where housing supply is perfectly elastic, and an upper bound on the extent to which housing policy
can increase fertility. Then, I let average rents rise while relative rents are ﬁxed and vice versa to
understand whether rising average or relative rents are more important.
N
π
N ′
P
r
u
v
v′
P ′
d
ˆπ
c
ˆN ′
∆
4.10
4.3
5.5
4.6-4.9
4.5, 4.9
5.11
5.11
5.11
next period
5.11
5.14, 5.15
5.13
4.3
5.8
5.8
5.5
4.3
5.10
5.14
5.15
4.3
Figure 9: Visual partial equilibrium deﬁnition and solution algorithm. Initial shift in orange, inner loop in
blue, the two parts of the outer loop in purple and green, passing of the actual distribution of agents over
states forward in time in black. Circled nodes are inputs; N is circled despite having an arrow pointing to it
because for each decade it is an input that is an output of the prior decade.
Figure 9 is a visual depiction of the partial equilibrium deﬁnition, showing which variables aﬀect
which and referring to the speciﬁc equations that deﬁne each relationship (a more formal partial
equilibrium deﬁnition is available in Section A10). To solve this partial equilibrium ﬁxed point
problem, I ﬁrst shift rents r which aﬀects housing utility u and value functions v, shown in orange. In
an inner loop depicted in blue, I update future values v′ based on the forecast regression parameters
and draws from the error distribution. The future values directly aﬀect the continuation value c, but
also aﬀect future choices P ′ in the form of the decisions of adult children and extras. These decisions
aﬀect the predicted state transition matrix of other agents ˆπ, which also aﬀects continuation value c,
which feeds back into current values v. Before each inner loop initiates, an outer loop completes
an iteration of two distinct calculations. In purple, current choices P and state distribution N are
33


Build, Baby, Build
Couillard
used to form the actual state transition matrix π in order to update the actual distribution of agents
over states N ′ in every period with an accounting relationship (including the exogenous eﬀect of
mortality and net migration ∆, calculated as the residual between the model-predicted and actual
distribution of agents over states from a baseline run of the decomposition using factual inputs),
which then becomes the actual distribution of agents over states in the next period N (in black).
Once the actual distribution of agents over states is known, it is used (in green) to form agents’
predictions of the future distribution of agents over states ˆN ′ via a reduced-form relationship, which
is then combined with the predicted future choice probabilities P ′ in every inner loop iteration to
obtain the distribution of extras in the expected state transition matrix ˆπ.
After solving the decomposition, I compute children born and cohort and total fertility rates, as
well as household formation and housing market outcomes.
6.2
General Equilibrium and Counterfactuals
Because housing costs are endogenous, they cannot be directly controlled by policy, and so to
understand the eﬀects of policy going forward we need to consider general equilibrium counterfactuals.
Much of the focus of housing policy reformers in recent years has been on increasing building of any
kind, agnostic to any heterogeneity in housing units. However, regulations and market incentives
combine to make smaller units lower cost and more proﬁtable and thus the primary result of any
YIMBY policy, which – as has been discussed elsewhere in this paper – has an ambiguous eﬀect on
fertility20. Thus other policy experts have advocated a more speciﬁc focus on larger units in order to
arrest the increase in the cost of starting a family. This policy dilemma – focus on building small
and low-cost units, or larger and more expensive units – is the focus of the policy counterfactuals.
The policies considered are shifts in housing supply curves for 1 bedroom and 3+ bedroom units.
These cost reductions can be thought of as developer subsidies, or reductions in the regulatory tax of
building. To keep the policies as comparable as possible on a cost basis, I consider supply shifts that
would result from equal expenditures – 5% of total rent expenditures in each year, treating owners as
renters – on subsidies at initial rents and quantities.
The housing supply equation is:
ln rjbt = γjb + γjt + γbt + γ−1
j
ln Hjbt + ϵjbt.
(6.1)
I take the elasticities from Baum-Snow and Han (2024), and I estimate the heterogeneous intercepts
in stages21. Fertility decisions feed back into housing quantities via the following four equations.
20More aﬀordable small units may increase fertility by drawing singles away from large units or by reducing the
long-run cost of fertility as adult children are prompted to move out, but may also increase the value of living in a small
unit as a single relative to starting a family.
21If I attempt to estimate this equation jointly (including as a regressor or partialling out γ−1
j
ln Hjbt) then larger units
34


Build, Baby, Build
Couillard
Reading from right to left, ﬁrst, I aggregate over dynamic states and choices to obtain the total
number of agents for each housing demand type, then I ﬁnd the tract-bedroom distribution of each
type using the housing choice probabilities, then I convert to households using the rule of thumb
discussed in Section A9.1, and ﬁnally I aggregate over housing demand type to ﬁnd total housing
demand, which enters the supply equation.
Hjbt =
X
τ
Hτ
jbt,
Hτ
jbt =
(
N τ
jbt/s(τ)
if
f(τ) = 0
N τ
jbt/2
if
f(τ) = 1,
N τ
jbt = P τ
jbtN τ,
N τ =
X
(g,x):τ(g,x)=τ
P x
g N x (6.2)
As shown in Figure 10, the general equilibrium deﬁnition (a more formal equilibrium deﬁnition
is available in Section A10) adds these conditions to the partial equilibrium deﬁnition, and the
counterfactual solution algorithm adds a market-clearing loop to the decomposition solution
algorithm. Now, after housing supply parameters γ shift rents r, housing utility u, and value
functions v, the outer loop computes the actual and expected future distribution of agents over states
N ′ and ˆN ′, and the inner loop ﬁnds the inner ﬁxed point v, I use the distribution of agents over
states and types N and living arrangement and housing choice probabilities Pg and Ph to ﬁnd the
distribution of households over housing options H, implying a new rent r. This rent shifts utility,
housing probabilities, and the number of households, generating a new rent, etc. until convergence
and the next outer loop iteration.
7
Results
I ﬁrst present housing demand results which align with the predictions of the Becker quantity-quality
model extended to include housing, and which govern the relationship between housing and fertility
choices. I then illustrate the causal eﬀect of housing costs on fertility and household formation
via a partial equilibrium decomposition. Finally, I show how alternate policies aﬀect fertility and
household formation via two general equilibrium counterfactuals.
7.1
Housing Demand
Matching theoretical predictions, structural estimates show that larger families are more sensitive
to rents and have a stronger taste for large units. This pattern of heterogeneity ensures that rising
rents – in general and for the largest units – reduce fertility, and is estimated in a ﬁrst step with
have a lower intercept despite having higher rents, which is probably related in some way to the fact that the elasticity is
constrained to be identical over size. Instead, I estimate this equation in stages. I ﬁrst include γ−1
j
ln Hjbt as a regressor
to estimate the ﬁxed eﬀects, and I retain the most important one γbt, which will be targeted by counterfactuals. I then
partial out γ−1
j
ln Hjbt as if it had a coeﬃcient of one and γbt before estimating the other ﬁxed eﬀects γjb and γjt. This
way allows the tendency for larger units to have higher rents to pass through into the intercepts, while still allowing the
other ﬁxed eﬀects and elasticity term to have some inﬂuence.
35


Build, Baby, Build
Couillard
N
π
N ′
Pg
r
u
v
Ph
H
∆
γ
v′
P ′
g
d
ˆπ
c
ˆN ′
6.1
4.3
5.5
4.6-4.9
4.5, 4.9
5.11
5.11
5.11
next period
5.11
5.13
5.14, 5.15
6.2
6.2
4.3
5.8
5.8
5.5
4.3
5.10
5.14
5.15
4.3
4.10
A5.3
6.2
6.1
Figure 10: Visual general equilibrium deﬁnition and solution algorithm. Initial housing supply shift in black
(γ →r), then r →u →v and outer loop initiates in purple. The actual distribution of agents over states N is
obtained in black, then next part of outer loop in green. Inner loop in blue iterates until convergence, then rent
loop in red initiates and upon completion another outer loop begins in purple, etc.
maximum likelihood. The absolute values of the rent coeﬃcients determine the steepness of the
demand curves and the quantitative magnitudes of these eﬀects, and is estimated in a second step
with two-stage least squares.
A type’s rent coeﬃcient is the sum of a baseline coeﬃcient and a distinct heterogeneity term for
every level of every dimension:
βτ
r =
baseline
z}|{
βr
+
age
z}|{
βa
r +
tenure
z}|{
βe
r +
family
z}|{
βf
r +
size
z}|{
βs
r ,
(7.1)
with one level of every dimension normalized to have a zero heterogeneity term. Preferences for
bedrooms, share single family, and rail noise follow the same pattern. 22 The heterogeneity terms are
estimated in the ﬁrst step, and the baseline coeﬃcient that shifts the entire distribution of preferences
is estimated in a second step.
I begin by presenting ﬁrst stage results for the 2SLS model that comprises the second step. In
Figure 11, the top two panels depict Olea-Pﬂueger Eﬀective F-statistics, the bottom two panels
depict ﬁrst stage coeﬃcients, the left two panels use the rail noise instrument, and the right two
panels use the share single-family instrument, all over a range of distances used to construct the
donut instrument. The ﬁrst stage is generally stronger than in the reduced-form analysis, but since
errors are clustered by tract this is not merely a result of using all three bedroom sizes and thereby
22This structure aids interpretability, but is also required to some extent when using micro-moments for identiﬁcation,
depending on which micro-moments are used. In contrast, the city-type-year ﬁxed eﬀect ϕτ
ct is allowed to vary freely
over τ, because counts by city-year-type are used.
36


Build, Baby, Build
Couillard
Figure 11: First stage regression results in housing demand estimation. The IV is based on rail noise at
left and share single-family at right. Top panels are Olea-Pﬂueger Eﬀective F-statistics, and bottom are
coeﬃcients. Standard errors are clustered by tract.
Figure 12: Second stage regression results in housing demand estimation. The IV is based on rail noise
at left and share single-family at right. Top panels show the rent coeﬃcient, and bottom panels show the
diﬀerence between the 3+ and 2 bedroom ﬁxed eﬀects. Standard errors are clustered by tract.
37


Build, Baby, Build
Couillard
increasing the sample size. For either instrument there is a range of distances where the ﬁrst stage
coeﬃcients are stable and the Olea-Pﬂueger Eﬀective F-statistics exceed 10. As in the reduced-form
analysis, this range is closer to a distance of zero for the share single-family instrument.
Second stage results are presented in Figure 12. Again, the left panels show results using the rail
noise instrument, and the right panels show results using the share single-family instrument. The
top panels show the rent coeﬃcient, while the bottom panels show the diﬀerence between the 3+
bedroom ﬁxed eﬀect and the 2 bedroom ﬁxed eﬀect. Results are truncated to fall within the region
where the instrument is strong and has the right sign. There are two notable patterns in this ﬁgure.
First, both instruments provide estimates that are quantitatively similar, despite the diﬀerences in
how they were constructed, the range where they are strong, and the patterns of variation over
distance. Second, the diﬀerence between the 3+ and 2 bedroom ﬁxed eﬀects is a mirror image of the
rent coeﬃcient. Upon reﬂection, this is not surprising: since larger units have higher rents, choices
must either be rationalized by either a taste for the good or a distaste for its cost.
Next, I aggregate donut regions where the instruments have particularly strong and stable ﬁrst
stages, and present OLS, ﬁrst stage, and 2SLS results in Table 4. For the rail noise instrument, I
choose 12-24km, where the KP statistic hovers around 100 and the the donut coeﬃcient is close to
constant. For the share single-family instrument, I choose 5-9km, which brackets the point where
the donut is strongest and where the KP statistic is 25 or higher. I also include the single kilometer
donut that generates the most negative rent coeﬃcient for each instrument.
There are two OLS columns, because the two left hand side variables δjbt come from two
maximum-likelihood estimates, one that includes focal tract rail noise and one that does not –
however the diﬀerence is apparently very small. Turning to the ﬁrst stage estimates, using wider
donuts tends to increase the coeﬃcient and the standard error for a net increase of the KP stat.
Wider donuts also generate second stage coeﬃcients that are smaller in magnitude. In every 2SLS
speciﬁcation, the Anderson-Rubin F-statistic veriﬁes the statistical signiﬁcance of the rent coeﬃcient.
In Figure 13 I plot histograms of the parameters of interest (weighted by the frequency of agents
of diﬀerent housing demand types) given baseline preferences as in Column 5 (rail instrument,
14km) in Table 4, the speciﬁcation that generates the most negative rent coeﬃcient. All types have
downward-sloping demand and value 2 bedroom units more than 1 bedroom units. However, there
is a small mass that values 3+ bedroom units less than 2 bedroom units. As shown in Figure 12,
there is an inverse relationship between the diﬀerence between the 3+ and 2 bedroom ﬁxed eﬀect
and the rent coeﬃcient. Even the most negative rent coeﬃcient is insuﬃcient for all agents to value
additional space, which we know must be true because it is an unambiguous good. I conclude that
the true rent coeﬃcient is even larger, but take the estimate from Table 4 Column 5 as the preferred
estimate for the decompositions and counterfactuals since it is closest to the truth. This bias reduces
the magnitude of the decomposition and counterfactuals, making them more conservative.
38


Build, Baby, Build
Couillard
Table 4: OLS, ﬁrst stage, and second stage results using both preferred single-kilometer donuts and consolidated donuts for the two IVs. Standard
errors clustered by census tract. Preferred speciﬁcation: Column 5.
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(7)
(8)
(9)
(10)
OLS
First
2SLS
First
2SLS
OLS
First
2SLS
First
2SLS
Rent
-0.000139∗∗
-0.00621∗∗∗
-0.00899∗∗∗
-0.000160∗∗∗
-0.00723∗∗∗
-0.00543∗∗∗
(0.0000467)
(0.000800)
(0.00136)
(0.0000466)
(0.00152)
(0.00138)
2 Bedrooms
1.143∗∗∗
19.10∗∗∗
1.259∗∗∗
19.10∗∗∗
1.313∗∗∗
1.144∗∗∗
19.10∗∗∗
1.279∗∗∗
19.10∗∗∗
1.244∗∗∗
(0.00411)
(0.0344)
(0.0158)
(0.0344)
(0.0262)
(0.00411)
(0.0344)
(0.0291)
(0.0344)
(0.0265)
3+ Bedrooms
1.948∗∗∗
39.65∗∗∗
2.189∗∗∗
39.65∗∗∗
2.300∗∗∗
1.949∗∗∗
39.65∗∗∗
2.230∗∗∗
39.65∗∗∗
2.158∗∗∗
(0.00680)
(0.0481)
(0.0324)
(0.0481)
(0.0542)
(0.00679)
(0.0481)
(0.0604)
(0.0481)
(0.0549)
Share Single Family
-0.722∗∗∗
12.46∗∗∗
-0.650∗∗∗
12.23∗∗∗
-0.617∗∗∗
-0.726∗∗∗
14.09∗∗∗
-0.639∗∗∗
13.93∗∗∗
-0.661∗∗∗
(0.00703)
(0.613)
(0.0120)
(0.613)
(0.0182)
(0.00702)
(0.624)
(0.0209)
(0.623)
(0.0188)
Rail Noise, Focal
0.00272∗∗∗
-0.338∗∗∗
0.00103∗∗
-0.322∗∗∗
0.000258
(0.000259)
(0.0290)
(0.000367)
(0.0291)
(0.000508)
Rail Noise, 12-24km
0.836∗∗∗
(0.0608)
Rail Noise, 14km
0.461∗∗∗
(0.0488)
Share Single Family, 5-9km
-8.342∗∗∗
(1.157)
Share Single Family, 7km
-7.726∗∗∗
(1.062)
N
424659
424659
424659
424659
424659
424659
424659
424659
424659
424659
Instrument
Rail 12-24km
Rail 14km
SF 5-9km
SF 7km
Olea-Pﬂueger F-Statistic
189.3
89.21
52.02
52.94
Anderson-Rubin F-Statistic
81.48
78.84
34.84
19.66
Standard errors in parentheses
∗p < 0.05, ∗∗p < 0.01, ∗∗∗p < 0.001
39


Build, Baby, Build
Couillard
Figure 13: The distribution of preferences over type given preferred 2SLS baseline estimates, using
frequencies of types (age, tenure, family/roommates, size) in the data over all years.
Next, in Figure 14 I plot rent coeﬃcients (left panel) and bedroom ﬁxed eﬀects (right panel) for
renting families of various sizes headed by 20-29 year olds. Because both family and non-family
households are plotted in the left panel, we can see how the assumption of additive separability
renders a constant gap βf=1
r
between the two sets of coeﬃcients. As expected, family households are
more rent-sensitive than non-family households, and households of either type are more rent-sensitive
when they are larger. Likewise, as expected, larger families have stronger preferences for the largest
(3+ bedroom) units, in absolute terms and relative to mid-size (2 bedroom) units.
These results imply that rising housing costs (generally, or large units) do disincentivize fertility.
However, quantifying this eﬀect results the full structural model. We turn to that next.
7.2
Decomposition
I measure the causal eﬀect of rising rents on fertility by manipulating rents, solving the model, and
calculating fertility. I provide results on the general fertility rate to facilitate comparisons with a
reduced-form approach, the total number of children born, the decline in the fertility rate from the
2000s to 2010s, and the share of 20-29 year olds that have started a family. Because fertility is
measured in children aged 0-9 in each decade, the x-axis labels on the following line plots refer
to the decade ending in that year, and so the large decreases in the GFR, TFR, and children born
40


Build, Baby, Build
Couillard
Figure 14: Parameters of interest for young renters. Large families are the most price-sensitive and place the
highest value on living space.
between the last two periods are decreases from the 2000s to the 2010s23. I show that results are
robust to an alternate normalization in Section A11.
In the top left panel of Figure 15, I plot the general fertility rate in the data, in the decomposition,
and resulting from aggregating the linear predictions of the reduced-form speciﬁcation in Section 3.
The model and reduced-form agree in 2000, but the reduced form provides larger and larger yet
predictions in 2010 and 2020, including a small increase in the GFR from the 2000s to the 2010s.
Assuming the decomposition is correct, the bias in the reduced-form from sorting is substantial,
equal to 31% and 68% of the true eﬀect in the last two periods. If we took the reduced-form
estimates at face value, it would imply that rising housing costs explain more than 100% of the
decline in fertility from the 2000s to the 2010s. On the other hand, the decomposition provides a
decrease in the GFR from 0.071 to 0.067 compared with a decrease in the data of 0.064 to 0.058.
Because holding housing costs constant generates a decrease that is 58% as large, housing costs
contribute 42% to the decline in the GFR from the 2000s to the 2010s.
Next is the total number of children born, in the top right panel of Figure 15. Using the reduced-
form GFR results to calculate growing future cohorts of women (placing it in an apples-to-apples
23This decrease is not as stark as in annual plots of fertility due to this aggregation, although it is based on the same
underlying data since I re-weight the Census and ACS micro-data to match the decadal analogues of the age-speciﬁc
birthrates published by the CDC.
41


Build, Baby, Build
Couillard
comparison with the decomposition, which also uses fertility in cohort size evolution) results in a
larger bias in terms of births, exceeding 50 million in the ﬁnal period where only 38 million are
born in the data. The decomposition also predicts an increase in births from the 2000s to the 2010s,
even as fertility rates decline, because of a growing cohort of reproductive-age women from higher
past fertility. Across the ﬁnal three periods, the decomposition predicts an increase of 13 million
births, which is 11% of the total number of births in this period in the data.
In the bottom left panel of Figure 15 is the total fertility rate, which cannot be analyzed in
the reduced-form due to data constraints. Holding housing costs ﬁxed in the 2000s results in an
increase in fertility substantially larger than that in the data, which likely occurred due to the strong
economy at the time24. More interestingly, the decomposition features a decrease in the TFR of 0.11
compared with 0.21 in the data, implying that housing costs explain 51% of the decline in fertility
from the 2000s to the 2010s.
Finally, the share of 20-29 year olds that are the head or the partner of the head of a household
with children is in the bottom right panel. In both the data and the decomposition, this share
declines in each period but especially in the last one. However, the total decline is only 10pp in
the decomposition, compared with 17pp in the data. Housing costs are responsible for 7pp of the
decline in family formation.
In subsequent decompositions depicted in Figure 16, I impose 1990 average rents (letting
diﬀerence between sizes vary as in the data) and 1990 diﬀerence in rents (letting the average vary as
in the data), in order to determine whether rising housing costs in general or the relative cost of large
units caused declining fertility. The results show that rising average rents are the greater contributor
to declining fertility, since reducing average rents down to 1990 levels does the most to increase
both the total fertility rate and the number of children born, responsible for roughly 67-75%.
7.3
Counterfactuals
Finally, I turn to counterfactual simulations. As discussed in Section 6, I separately shift the supply
curve the large 3+ bedroom units and small 1 bedroom units. Although I prefer to interpret these
supply shifts as reductions in a distortionary regulatory tax, I deﬁne the magnitude of the shifts
as if they come from subsidies of equal expenditure of 5% baseline rental expenditures (treating
all households as renters), allowing the lower construction costs of small units to factor into the
comparison. Then, the small unit policy may generate a large decrease in average rents, combining
with a greater dynamic eﬀect from getting young adults out of their parents’ houses (which shifts
24That the local peak of the US TFR occurred in 2007 is evidence that the expansion of housing ﬁnance in this period
played a role in increasing fertility. Because tenure is a part of the living arrangement choice in the model which is not
shifted in the decomposition, the decomposition is telling us that had housing costs (i.e., mortgage rates) not increased
at the same time that housing ﬁnance became easier to acquire, the fertility increase would have been even larger.
42


Build, Baby, Build
Couillard
Figure 15: Results from holding rents at their 1990 levels. The blue long-dash line is the model decomposition.
The purple short-dash line is from using earlier reduced-form estimates. Both include cohort size changes in
calculations of children born.
the long-run housing cost of fertility) to potentially surmount an increase in the relative rent of large
units to generate a larger fertility increase than the large-unit policy.
However, as shown in Figure 17 I ﬁnd that the large unit policy increases fertility by more, as
both the number of births (top left) and total fertility rate (top right) is higher in every period in this
scenario. In the bottom left, we verify that the small unit policy shifts average rents more, since the
rent of 1 bedroom units is smaller by a lot compared with the large unit policy, the reduction in the
rent of 2 bedroom units is about double, and the reduction in the rent of 3+ bedroom units is almost
as large. However, this is insuﬃcient to outweigh the impact of the large unit policy, which combines
a smaller eﬀect on average rents with a ﬂattening of the gradient of rents with respect to size.
8
Conclusion
In this paper, I analyze the role of the housing market in declining fertility in the US. Motivated by
the tendency for geographic mobility to generate selection into treatment in reduced-form analyses
of the topic, I specify a structural model of joint housing and fertility choice. The model nests
a standard neighborhood sorting model – with an additional dimension of choice, the number of
43


Build, Baby, Build
Couillard
Figure 16: Results from imposing 1990 rents, 1990 rent diﬀerences, and 1990 average rents.
The
decomposition results (long-dash blue line) are driven by average rents (short-dash purple line), not rent
diﬀerences (medium-dash orange line).
Figure 17: Counterfactual results of equal subsidies to the supply of large (3+ bedroom) and small (1
bedroom) units. The bottom left panel is not a time series panel; it plots 2020 rent over number of bedrooms.
44


Build, Baby, Build
Couillard
bedrooms – in a model of living arrangement choice, which chieﬂy includes fertility along with
tenure and the option to live with parents, other family members, or unrelated roommates. The
number of people in the household – be they the head, a partner, young children, adult children,
or other family members – determines the preferences that the household will have over housing
choice, generating a mechanism by which shifts in the characteristics of housing options translate
into heterogeneous shifts in the value of having a large family. A quantity-quality model extended to
include housing predicts, and housing demand estimates verify, that larger families will be more
price-sensitive and have a stronger taste for living space, such that rising housing costs or a rising
relative cost of large units disincentivize having children.
To estimate demand for neighborhoods that is heterogeneous over age, tenure, family/roommates,
and household size despite the joint distribution of these variables being unobservable due to
conﬁdentiality, I utilize and extend IO “micro-moment” techniques. I show that not only is the
necessary data for this housing demand model publicly available, it actually comprises suﬃcient
statistics for model parameters under less restrictive assumptions than those imposed by the standard
IO tools. In fact, the standard IO approach imposes an assumption that unobserved utility is
homogeneous over demographics, which in some contexts will lead to misspeciﬁcation. Conditional
on the housing demand inclusive value, dynamic living arrangement (fertility) utility is chosen to ﬁt
non-geographic microdata exactly, so that all non-housing determinants of fertility – rising female
education, changing culture, etc. – are held constant in decompositions and counterfactuals.
To ﬁnd the impact of housing costs on fertility, I vary it in a partial-equilibrium counterfactual,
and then measure fertility and living arrangement outcomes net of sorting and holding intrinsic
living arrangement and fertility preferences constant. I ﬁnd that rising housing costs since 1990 are
responsible for 13 million (11%) children not being born, 51% of decrease in fertility from the 2000s
to the 2010s, and a 7pp decrease in the share of 20-29 year olds that have started families. These
eﬀects are primarily driven by the general rise in housing costs rather than the steepining size-cost
gradient. I thus compare the fertility eﬀects of shifting the supply of large and small units as if
an equal aggregate subsidy had been applied to both (a reduction in distortionary local regulatory
taxes is a more appealing interpretation and lower-cost policy, albeit one that does not provide two
apples-to-apples supply shifts), so that a larger number of lower-cost small units could potentially
generate a larger impact on average rents and fertility despite steepening the size cost-gradient.
However, I ﬁnd that the large unit policy, which combines a smaller eﬀect on average rents with
ﬂattening of the soze-cost gradient, has a 2.3 times larger impact on fertility. I conclude that
housing, and particularly family-friendly housing, has a meaningful role in achieving demographic
sustainability.
45


Build, Baby, Build
Couillard
References
Ahlfeldt, Gabriel M. et al. (2025). “The Geography of Life: Evidence from Copenhagen”. Working
paper; abstract and slides available. url: https : / / caterinasoto . github . io / PDF -
website/Geography_of_life_presentation.pdf.
Albouy, David and R. Jason Faberman (2025). Skills, Migration and Urban Amenities over
the Life Cycle. NBER Working Paper 33552. National Bureau of Economic Research. doi:
10.3386/w33552.
Atalay, Kadir, Hsiu-Ling Li, and Shane Whelan (2021). “Housing Wealth, Fertility Intentions and
Fertility”. In: Journal of Housing Economics 53, p. 101737. doi: 10.1016/j.jhe.2021.
101737.
Athey, Susan and Guido W. Imbens (2007). “Discrete Choice Models with Multiple Unobserved
Choice Characteristics”. In: International Economic Review 48.4, pp. 1159–1192. doi: 10.
1111/j.1468-2354.2007.00458.x.
Autor, David, David Dorn, and Gordon Hanson (2019). “When Work Disappears: Manufacturing
Decline and the Falling Marriage Market Value of Young Men”. In: American Economic Review:
Insights 1.2, pp. 161–178. doi: 10.1257/aeri.20180010.
Baum-Snow, Nathaniel and Lu Han (2024). “The Microgeography of Housing Supply”. In: Journal
of Political Economy 132.6, pp. 1897–1946. doi: 10.1086/728110.
Bayer, Patrick, Fernando Ferreira, and Robert McMillan (2007). “A Uniﬁed Framework for
Measuring Preferences for Schools and Neighborhoods”. In: Journal of Political Economy 115.4,
pp. 588–638. doi: 10.1086/522381.
Becker, Gary S. (1960). “An Economic Analysis of Fertility”. In: Demographic and Economic
Change in Developed Countries. Ed. by Universities-National Bureau Committee for Economic
Research. NBER conference volume; institutional editor. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University
Press, pp. 209–240. doi: 10.7208/9780226042659-008.
Becker, Gary S. and H. Gregg Lewis (1973). “On the Interaction between the Quantity and Quality
of Children”. In: Journal of Political Economy 81.2, Part 2, S279–S288. doi: 10.1086/260166.
Berry, Steven T. and Philip A. Haile (2010). Identiﬁcation in Diﬀerentiated Products Markets Using
Market Level Data. Cowles Foundation Discussion Paper 1744R. Cowles Foundation for Research
in Economics. url: https://cowles.yale.edu/publications/cfdp/cfdp-1744r.
— (2014). “Identiﬁcation in Diﬀerentiated Products Markets Using Market Level Data”. In:
Econometrica 82.5, pp. 1749–1797. doi: 10.3982/ECTA9027.
Berry, Steven T., James A. Levinsohn, and Ariel Pakes (July 1995). “Automobile Prices in Market
Equilibrium”. In: Econometrica 63.4, pp. 841–890. doi: 10.2307/2171802.
46


Build, Baby, Build
Couillard
Berry, Steven T., James A. Levinsohn, and Ariel Pakes (2004a). “Diﬀerentiated Products Demand
Systems from a Combination of Micro and Market Share Data: The New Car Market”. In:
Journal of Political Economy 112.1, pp. 68–105. doi: 10.1086/379939.
Berry, Steven T., Oliver B. Linton, and Ariel Pakes (2004b). “Limit Theorems for Estimating the
Parameters of Diﬀerentiated Product Demand Systems”. In: The Review of Economic Studies
71.3, pp. 613–654. doi: 10.1111/j.1467-937X.2004.00298.x.
Black, Dan A. et al. (2013). “Are Children “Normal”?” In: The Review of Economics and Statistics
95.1, pp. 21–33. doi: 10.1162/REST_a_00257.
Bloom, David E., Michael Kuhn, and Klaus Prettner (Aug. 2024). “Fertility in High-Income
Countries: Trends, Patterns, Determinants, and Consequences”. In: Annual Review of Economics
16.1, pp. 159–184. doi: 10.1146/annurev-economics-081523-013750.
Borg, Mary O. (1989). “The Income–Fertility Relationship: Eﬀect of the Net Price of a Child”. In:
Demography 26.2, pp. 301–310. doi: 10.2307/2061527.
B¨orsch-Supan, Axel (1986). “Household Formation, Housing Prices, and Public Policy Impacts”.
In: Journal of Public Economics 30.2, pp. 145–164. doi: 10.1016/0047-2727(86)90005-6.
Cesarini, David et al. (2023). Fortunate Families? The Eﬀects of Wealth on Marriage and Fertility.
NBER Working Paper 31039. National Bureau of Economic Research. doi: 10.3386/w31039.
url: https://www.nber.org/papers/w31039.
Clark, Warren and Ana Ferrer (2019). “The Eﬀect of Housing Prices on Fertility: Evidence from
Canada”. In: Economics: The Open-Access, Open-Assessment E-Journal 13.2019-38, pp. 1–31.
doi: 10.5018/economics-ejournal.ja.2019-38.
Clark, William A. V. (2012). “Do Women Delay Family Formation in Expensive Housing Markets?”
In: Demographic Research 27, pp. 1–24. doi: 10.4054/DemRes.2012.27.1.
Coeurdacier, Nicolas et al. (2022). “Fertility, Housing Costs and City Growth”. Slides and abstract
(no draft available). url: https://floswald.github.io/project/fertility/.
Conlon, Christopher T. and JeﬀGortmaker (2020). “Best Practices for Diﬀerentiated Products
Demand Estimation with PyBLP”. In: RAND Journal of Economics 51.4, pp. 1108–1161. doi:
10.1111/1756-2171.12352.
— (2023). Incorporating Micro Data into Diﬀerentiated Products Demand Estimation with PyBLP.
NBER Working Paper 31605. Revised September 2024. National Bureau of Economic Research.
doi: 10.3386/w31605.
Cooper, Daniel and Mar´ıa Jos´e Luengo-Prado (2018). “Household Formation over Time: Evidence
from Two Cohorts of Young Adults”. In: Journal of Housing Economics 41, pp. 106–123. doi:
10.1016/j.jhe.2018.05.004.
Couture, Victor and Jessie Handbury (2020). “Urban Revival in America”. In: Journal of Urban
Economics 119, p. 103267. doi: 10.1016/j.jue.2020.103267.
47


Build, Baby, Build
Couillard
Cumming, Fergus and Lisa J. Dettling (2024). “Monetary Policy and Birth Rates: The Eﬀect of
Mortgage Rate Pass-Through on Fertility”. In: The Review of Economic Studies 91.1. First
published online March 4, 2023, pp. 229–258. doi: 10.1093/restud/rdad034.
Daysal, Nese Yıldız et al. (2021). “Home Prices, Fertility, and Early-Life Health Outcomes”. In:
Journal of Public Economics 198, p. 104395. doi: 10.1016/j.jpubeco.2020.104395.
Dettling, Lisa J. and Melissa S. Kearney (2014). “House Prices and Birth Rates: The Impact of the
Real Estate Market on the Decision to Have a Baby”. In: Journal of Public Economics 110,
pp. 82–100. doi: 10.1016/j.jpubeco.2013.12.009.
— (2025). Did the Modern Mortgage Set the Stage for the U.S. Baby Boom? NBER Working Paper
33446. National Bureau of Economic Research. doi: 10.3386/w33446.
Diamond, Rebecca (2016). “The Determinants and Welfare Implications of US Workers’ Diverging
Location Choices by Skill: 1980–2000”. In: American Economic Review 106.3, pp. 479–524.
doi: 10.1257/aer.20131706.
Doepke, Matthias et al. (2023). “The Economics of Fertility: A New Era”. In: Handbook of the
Economics of the Family. Ed. by Shelly Lundberg and Alessandra Voena. Elsevier, pp. 1–86.
doi: 10.1016/bs.hefam.2023.01.003.
Driscoll, Anne K. and Brady E. Hamilton (Mar. 2025). Eﬀects of Age-speciﬁc Fertility Trends on
Overall Fertility Trends: United States, 1990–2023. Tech. rep. 3. Hyattsville, MD: National Center
for Health Statistics. url: https://www.cdc.gov/nchs/data/nvsr/nvsr74/nvsr74-
3.pdf.
Ermisch, John (1999). “Prices, Parents, and Young People’s Household Formation”. In: Journal of
Urban Economics 45.1, pp. 47–71. doi: 10.1006/juec.1998.2081.
Ermisch, John and Pamela Di Salvo (1997). “The Economic Determinants of Young People’s
Household Formation”. In: Economica 64.256, pp. 627–644. doi: 10.1111/j.1468-0335.
1997.tb00439.x.
Fazio, Dimas et al. (2025). Housing and Fertility. Research Paper 111/2025. Also circulated as
CEPR DP19805 (2024) and Banco Central do Brasil Working Paper 612 (2024). FEB-RN. doi:
10.2139/ssrn.5046571. url: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5046571.
Figueiredo, Oct´avio, Paulo Guimar˜aes, and Douglas Woodward (2003). “A Tractable Approach
to the Firm Location Decision Problem”. In: The Review of Economics and Statistics 85.1,
pp. 201–204. doi: 10.1162/003465303762687811.
Fleisher, Belton M. and Jr. Rhodes George F. (1979). “Fertility, Women’s Wage Rates, and Labor
Supply”. In: American Economic Review 69.1, pp. 14–24. doi: 10.2307/1802493.
Gandhi, Amit and Jean-Franc¸ois Houde (Oct. 2019). Measuring Substitution Patterns in Diﬀerentiated-
Products Industries. NBER Working Paper 26375. Introduces the ”Diﬀerentiation IVs”; revised
48


Build, Baby, Build
Couillard
November 2020. National Bureau of Economic Research. doi: 10.3386/w26375. url: https:
//www.nber.org/papers/w26375.
Glaeser, Edward L. and Joseph Gyourko (May 2025). America’s Housing Supply Problem: The
Closing of the Suburban Frontier? NBER Working Paper 33876. Cambridge, MA: National
Bureau of Economic Research. doi: 10.3386/w33876. url: https://www.nber.org/
papers/w33876.
Haurin, Donald R., Patric H. Hendershott, and Dongwook Kim (1993). “The Impact of Real Rents
and Wages on Household Formation”. In: Journal of Urban Economics 35.2, pp. 178–190. doi:
10.1006/juec.1993.1009.
Heckman, James J. and James R. Walker (1990). “The Relationship Between Wages and Income and
the Timing and Spacing of Births: Evidence from Swedish Longitudinal Data”. In: Econometrica
58.6, pp. 1411–1441. doi: 10.2307/2938322.
Japaridze, I. and N. Sayour (2024). “Housing Aﬀordability Crisis and Delayed Fertility: Evidence
from the USA”. In: Population Research and Policy Review 43. doi: 10.1007/s11113-024-
09865-8. url: https://doi.org/10.1007/s11113-024-09865-8.
Kearney, Melissa S. and Riley Wilson (2018). “Male Earnings, Marriageable Men, and Nonmarital
Fertility: Evidence from the Fracking Boom”. In: The Review of Economics and Statistics 100.4,
pp. 678–690. doi: 10.1162/rest_a_00739.
Lafortune, Jeanne and Corinne Low (2023). “Collateralized Marriage? Homeownership and
the Household Formation of Young Americans”. In: American Economic Journal: Applied
Economics 15.3, pp. 216–252. doi: 10.1257/app.20200632.
Lesthaeghe, Ron (2014). “The Second Demographic Transition: A Review and Appraisal”. In:
Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences 111.51, pp. 18112–18115. doi: 10.1073/
pnas.1420441111.
Liu, Ziqian and Yu Zhang (2024). “The Eﬀect of House Prices on Fertility: Evidence from House
Purchase Restrictions”. Working paper, SSRN version. url: https://ssrn.com/abstract=
4808554.
Lovenheim, Michael F. and Kevin J. Mumford (2013). “Do Family Wealth Shocks Aﬀect Fertility
Choices? Evidence from the Housing Market”. In: The Review of Economics and Statistics 95.2,
pp. 464–475. doi: 10.1162/REST_a_00331.
Martin, Joyce A. et al. (Dec. 2013). Births: Final Data for 2012. Tech. rep. 9. Hyattsville, MD:
National Center for Health Statistics. url: https://stacks.cdc.gov/view/cdc/26769.
Moreno-Maldonado, Ana and Clara Santamar´ıa (2024). Delayed Childbearing and Urban Revival:
A Structural Approach. CEPR Discussion Paper 19002. CEPR. url: https://cepr.org/
publications/dp19002.
49


Build, Baby, Build
Couillard
Mullahy, John (1997). “Instrumental-Variable Estimation of Count Data Models: Applications to
Models of Cigarette Smoking Behavior”. In: The Review of Economics and Statistics 79.4,
pp. 586–593. doi: 10.1162/003465397557169.
National Center for Family & Marriage Research (2012). Age Variation in the Divorce Rate, 1990 &
2010. Family Proﬁle FP-12-05. Bowling Green, OH: National Center for Family & Marriage
Research, Bowling Green State University. url: https://scholarworks.bgsu.edu/ncfmr_
family_profiles/73/.
— (2014). Age Variation in the Divorce Rate, 1990–2012. Family Proﬁle FP-14-16. Bowling Green,
OH: National Center for Family & Marriage Research, Bowling Green State University. url:
https://scholarworks.bgsu.edu/ncfmr_family_profiles/151/.
— (2017). Age Variation in the Divorce Rate, 1990 & 2015. Family Proﬁle FP-17-20. Bowling
Green, OH: National Center for Family & Marriage Research, Bowling Green State University.
url: https://www.bgsu.edu/ncfmr/resources/data/family-profiles/wu-age-
variation-divorce-rate-1990-2015-fp-17-20.html.
— (2019). Age Variation in the Divorce Rate, 1990 & 2017. Family Proﬁle FP-19-13. Bowling
Green, OH: National Center for Family & Marriage Research, Bowling Green State University.
doi: 10.25035/ncfmr/fp-19-13. url: https://www.bgsu.edu/ncfmr/resources/
data/family-profiles/allred-age-variation-divorce-rate-1990-2017-fp-19-
13.html.
— (2021). Age Variation in the Divorce Rate, 1990 & 2019. Family Proﬁle FP-21-16. Bowling
Green, OH: National Center for Family & Marriage Research, Bowling Green State University.
doi: 10.25035/ncfmr/fp-21-16. url: https://scholarworks.bgsu.edu/ncfmr_
family_profiles/1229/.
— (2023). Age Variation in the Divorce Rate, 1990 & 2021. Family Proﬁle FP-23-16. Bowling
Green, OH: National Center for Family & Marriage Research, Bowling Green State University.
doi: 10.25035/ncfmr/fp-23-16. url: https://www.bgsu.edu/ncfmr/resources/
data/family- profiles/westrick- payne- lin- age- variation- divorce- rate-
1990-2021-fp-23-16.html.
Paciorek, Andrew D. (2013). The Long and the Short of Household Formation. Finance and
Economics Discussion Series 2013-26. Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. url:
https://www.federalreserve.gov/pubs/feds/2013/201326/201326pap.pdf.
Pan, Yinghao and Hao Yang (2022). “Impacts of Housing Booms on Fertility in China: A Perspective
From Homeownership”. In: International Regional Science Review 45.5, pp. 534–554. doi:
10.1177/01600176211066472.
Petrin, Amil (2002). “Quantifying the Beneﬁts of New Products: The Case of the Minivan”. In:
Journal of Political Economy 110.4, pp. 705–729. doi: 10.1086/340779.
50


Build, Baby, Build
Couillard
Ruggles, Steven et al. (2025). IPUMS USA: Version 16.0. dataset. Minneapolis, MN: IPUMS. doi:
10.18128/D010.V16.0. url: https://doi.org/10.18128/D010.V16.0.
Schroeder, Jonathan et al. (2025). IPUMS National Historical Geographic Information System:
Version 20.0. dataset. Minneapolis, MN: IPUMS. doi: 10.18128/D050.V20.0. url: https:
//doi.org/10.18128/D050.V20.0.
Simon, Curtis and Robert Tamura (2009). “Do Higher Rents Discourage Fertility? Evidence from
U.S. Cities, 1940–2000”. In: Regional Science and Urban Economics 39.1, pp. 33–42. doi:
10.1016/j.regsciurbeco.2008.06.003.
Stone, Lyman and Bobby Fijan (Sept. 2025). Homes for Young Families Part 2. Americans Are
Willing to Pay for Family-Friendly Apartments. Report Brief Part 2. Institute for Family Studies.
url: https://ifstudies.org/report-brief/homes-for-young-families-part-2.
Tsai, Yung-Yu et al. (2022). The Eﬀect of Financial Resources on Fertility: Evidence from Administra-
tive Data on Lottery Winners. IEAS Working Paper 22-A007. Institute of Economics, Academia
Sinica. url: https://www.econ.sinica.edu.tw/˜econ/pdfPaper/22-A007.pdf.
U.S. Census Bureau (2016). 2020 Census Research and Testing: Investigating the 2010 Undercount
of Young Children—Examining the Coverage of Young Mothers. Internal Research Memorandum.
2016.08. U.S. Census Bureau.
United Nations (2022). World Population Prospects 2022: Summary of Results. ST/ESA/SER.A/448.
New York: United Nations, Department of Economic and Social Aﬀairs, Population Division.
url: https://population.un.org/wpp/.
Wrenn, Douglas H., Junjian Yi, and Bo Zhang (2019). “House Prices and Marriage Entry in China”.
In: Regional Science and Urban Economics 74, pp. 118–130. doi: 10.1016/j.regsciurbeco.
2018.12.001.
51


Build, Baby, Build
Couillard
Appendix Contents
A1 Example Data: Marginal Distributions and IPF
A-2
A2 Radius Of Residential Search Regions
A-3
A3 Sorting and SUTVA in the Reduced-Form
A-3
A4 Quantity-Quality With Housing
A-5
A4.1 Main Results
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . A-5
A4.2 Weak Separability . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . A-7
A5 Deriving Housing Demand
A-8
A6 Micro-BLP Mis-speciﬁcation
A-8
A6.1 Theorem and Proof . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . A-8
A6.2 Example . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . A-10
A7 Suﬃcient Statistics: Choice Models
A-11
A7.1 Setup
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . A-12
A7.2 Theorem 1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . A-13
A7.3 Proof of Theorem 1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . A-13
A7.4 Corollary 1
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . A-14
A7.5 Proof of Corollary 1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . A-14
A8 Suﬃcient Statistics: Other Models
A-14
A8.1 Lemma 1
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . A-14
A8.2 Proof of Lemma 1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . A-15
A8.3 Lemma 2
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . A-16
A8.4 Proof of Lemma 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . A-16
A8.5 Theorem 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . A-17
A8.6 Proof of Theorem 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . A-17
A8.7 Corollary 2
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . A-18
A8.8 Proof of Corollary 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . A-18
A8.9 Theorem 3 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . A-18
A8.10Proof of Theorem 3 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . A-18
52


Build, Baby, Build
Couillard
A9 Housing Demand Estimation Details
A-19
A9.1 Agents To Households
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . A-19
A9.2 Transforming Rent So Suﬃciency Results Apply
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . A-20
A9.3 Exposure Variable . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . A-20
A9.4 Suﬃciency
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . A-21
A10Equilibrium Deﬁnition
A-22
A11Identiﬁcation And Sensitivity
A-25
A-1


Build, Baby, Build
Couillard
A1
Example Data: Marginal Distributions and IPF
To better illustrate the data used, consider the following simple example. There are four census
tracts – each of which belongs to one of two cities – and two age groups and two sexes. This is
the unobserved joint distribution, depicted in Table 5’s “Population” column. Because this joint
distribution is unobserved, we would instead use three marginal distributions in Table 6: tract by
age, tract by sex, and age by sex by city. These marginal distributions could be used directly in a
bespoke maximum likelihood estimation routine, or they could ﬁrst be combined into a rectangular
estimate of the joint distribution using IPF (Table 5’s right-most column) to be passed into a more
standard maximum likelihood estimation routine.
Table 5: Example: Population by City, Census Tract, Age, Sex, and IPF Estimate
City
Census Tract
Age
Sex
Population
IPF Estimate
City A
Tract 101
Young
Male
520
514.432
City A
Tract 101
Young
Female
480
485.568
City A
Tract 101
Old
Male
310
315.568
City A
Tract 101
Old
Female
340
334.432
City A
Tract 102
Young
Male
450
455.568
City A
Tract 102
Young
Female
470
464.432
City A
Tract 102
Old
Male
290
284.432
City A
Tract 102
Old
Female
320
325.568
City B
Tract 201
Young
Male
610
607.979
City B
Tract 201
Young
Female
590
592.021
City B
Tract 201
Old
Male
330
332.021
City B
Tract 201
Old
Female
350
347.979
City B
Tract 202
Young
Male
500
502.021
City B
Tract 202
Young
Female
520
517.979
City B
Tract 202
Old
Male
310
307.979
City B
Tract 202
Old
Female
340
342.021
Table 6: Example: Marginal Population Distributions
(a) By Tract and Age
Tract
Age
Pop.
101
Young
1000
101
Old
650
102
Young
920
102
Old
610
201
Young
1200
201
Old
680
202
Young
1020
202
Old
650
(b) By Tract and Sex
Tract
Sex
Pop.
101
Male
830
101
Female
820
102
Male
740
102
Female
790
201
Male
940
201
Female
940
202
Male
810
202
Female
860
(c) By City, Age, and Sex
City
Age
Sex
Pop.
City A
Young
Male
970
City A
Young
Female
950
City A
Old
Male
600
City A
Old
Female
660
City B
Young
Male
1110
City B
Young
Female
1110
City B
Old
Male
640
City B
Old
Female
690
A-2


Build, Baby, Build
Couillard
A2
Radius Of Residential Search Regions
Assume that with probability s movers search in a disc of radius R around their current home, and
with probability 1 −s search in a disc of radius R centered on some point in a diﬀerent metro. The
smallest inter-metro move is larger than the largest intra-metro move. Potential destinations are
uniformly distributed in each disc.
Starting with the case with s = 1 (all within-metro moves), the probability of moving a distance
less than or equal to d is simply the area of a disk with radius d divided by the total disk area:
Pr(D ≤d) = πd2/πR2 = (d/R)2.
(A2.1)
Then we can use the median distance m to solve for the radius R:
Pr(D ≤m) = (m/R)2 = 1/2 =⇒R = m
√
2.
(A2.2)
When within-metro moves only occur with probability s, the ratio of the disk areas is now a
conditional probability:
Pr(D ≤d) = Pr(D ≤d|s) × s = πd2/πR2s = (d/R)2s,
(A2.3)
and we can use median distance m and within-metro share s to solve for the radius R:
Pr(D ≤m) = (m/r)2s = 1/2 =⇒R = m
√
2s.
(A2.4)
Given that the median move distance was stable between 16km and 24km from 1989 to 2019
(NAR, 2023), and that the intra-metro move share was around 0.75 and 0.8 over 2005-19 (ACS
2005, 2010, 2015, 2019), we arrive at a ballpark
R ∈(16 ×
√
2 × 0.75, 24 ×
√
2 × 0.8) ≈(19.6, 30.4).
(A2.5)
A3
Sorting and SUTVA in the Reduced-Form
To see the SUTVA violation, consider the following simpliﬁed model of joint sorting-fertility choice.
Begin by positing that the utility of a joint location-fertility choice depends solely on that location’s
rents, a heterogeneous fertility constant, and an idiosyncratic EVT1 shock. Fertility is a binary
decision f ∈{0, 1}, and every individual i has a binary fertility type τ ∈{0, 1}, with α1
1 > 0 and
fertility utility 0 otherwise. If the agent chooses fertility then they must also purchase an additional
A-3


Build, Baby, Build
Couillard
unit of housing. The joint utility is:
ui
jf = ατ(i)
f
+ β(1 + f)rj + ϵi
jf.
(A3.1)
The probability of choosing a (j, f) option is
P τ
jf =
exp(ατ
f + β(1 + f)rj)
P
k exp(ατ
0 + βrk) + exp(ατ
1 + 2βrk).
(A3.2)
The fertility rate for a given type and location is
F τ
j =
P τ
j1
P τ
j0 + P τ
j1
=
exp(ατ
1 + 2βrj)
exp(ατ
0 + βrj) + exp(ατ
1 + 2βrj),
(A3.3)
where notably the identical denominators cancel out of the logit choice probabilities. Although
heterogeneous small-area fertility rates are generally unavailable, if they were observed and regressed
on rents with a valid identiﬁcation strategy (or, if aggregate fertility rates are used with a very strong
assumption of homogeneity of fertility preferences), then at best the estimated coeﬃcients will be a
linear approximation to this non-linear function and large counterfactuals will be invalid.
Most likely, heterogeneous small-area fertility rates are unavailable, and the researcher would be
forced to use aggregate small-area fertility rates. These are a weighted average of the heterogeneous
fertility rates, where the weights are the proportions of either type that choose to settle in j:
Fj = W 1
j
P 1
j1
P 1
j0 + P 1
j1
+ (1 −W 1
j )
P 0
j1
P 0
j0 + P 0
j1
.
(A3.4)
Although the denominators of the heterogeneous fertility rates cancel, they do not cancel out of the
weights, since fertility types 0 and 1 have diﬀerent choice probability denominators:
W 1
j =
N 1
j
N 0
j + N 1
j
=
Nχ(P 1
j0 + P 1
j1)
N(1 −χ)(P 0
j0 + P 0
j1) + Nχ(P 1
j0 + P 1
j1),
(A3.5)
where N is the total number of agents and χ is the exogenous proportion of agents that are of fertility
type 1. Because the denominators of P do not cancel out of W, W and thus F are functions of rents
in all locations, and the reduced-form regression of F on r not only omits non-linearity but also
violates SUTVA.
The sorting-induced SUTVA violation biases estimation. The partial derivative of Fj with
respect to rj picks up not just the causal impact of rj on F τ
j , but also a sorting eﬀect as the
composition of types changes through W. Being more fertile than the other and thus more rent-
sensitive, the population of fertility type 1 choosing j decreases more as rj increases, and j becomes
A-4


Build, Baby, Build
Couillard
dominated by the less-fertile type 0. By implicitly making a structural assumption of no mobility, the
reduced-form’s treatment eﬀects attribute causality to selection (and omit non-linearity) regardless
of whatever identiﬁcation strategy is used, with the magnitude of the bias in estimates and implied
policy counterfactuals depending on the extent to which heterogeneous preferences for fertility are
omitted.
A4
Quantity-Quality With Housing
A4.1
Main Results
The results that (1) larger families value living space more, and (2) larger families value the numeraire
more (are more price-sensitive) emerge naturally from the following theoretical model, driven by
the core idea that having more children pushes a family back onto a part of the utility curve where
the marginal utility of living space per person and parental consumption are higher.
The key assumptions are (1) preferences are such that fertility is weakly separable from housing,
child quality, and parental consumption, (2) goods are goods (have positive marginal utility), (3)
goods are weakly normal (consumption non-decreasing with income), (4) goods have declining
marginal utility, and (5) the elasticity of per-child housing and investment with respect to fertility
is greater than -1. In addition, I impose standard assumptions (utility continuously diﬀerentiable,
quasi-concave, etc.).
The consumer’s problem is
max
n,q,c,h U(n, q, c, h)
subject to c + ni + nrh = y
(A4.1)
and q = f(i), f ′ > 0.
Parents choose the number of children n (real-valued for simplicity), their uniform quality q, parental
consumption c, and housing per child h. Parental consumption, total investment in children, and
total housing expenditure must satisfy a budget constraint25. Uniform investment in children i is
converted into child quality q by a well-behaved function f. Notably, having a larger quantity of
children increases the cost of increasing uniform child quality and housing per child – the exact
mechanism highlighted by Becker and Lewis (1973) for child quality, extended to housing. We can
also easily see how an increase in housing costs r aﬀects fertility, as it increases the shadow price of
fertility n, which is i + rh, reducing fertility via both the income and substitution eﬀects.
25The core results would not change with a more explicit treatment of household size, for example by using a budget
constraint (c/2) + ni + (n + 2)rh = y.
A-5


Build, Baby, Build
Couillard
Using weak separability26, we can rewrite the problem as a nested problem27, where n is taken
as given in the inner problem and chosen in an outer problem on the basis of preferences for fertility
per se and how it aﬀects the value of the inner problem:
max
n
U(n, v(n, r, y))
(A4.2)
where v(n, r, y) = max
q,c,h u(q, c, h)
subject to c + ni + nrh = y
and q = f(i), f ′ > 0.
This formulation permits a clean analysis of how a shift in fertility aﬀects the other choice variables
while still allowing fertility to be a choice variable itself.
Consider how an increase in n aﬀects the inner problem. It raises the shadow price of h and q,
and so the income and substitution eﬀects combine to generate h∗
n < 0 and q∗
n < 0. Because h and q
have declining marginal utility, an increase in n pushes h∗and q∗down onto a steeper part of the
utility function, and so the marginal utilities of h and q increase.
Now consider c, where the income and substitution eﬀects go in opposite directions. Write
optimal consumption as income not spent on optimal child quality or optimal housing, then
diﬀerentiate:
c∗= y −ni∗−nrh∗
=⇒c∗
n = −(ni∗
n + i∗) −(nrh∗
n + rh∗)
(A4.3)
= −i∗(1 + ϵi,n)
|
{z
}
+
−rh∗(1 + ϵh,n)
|
{z
}
+
< 0.
Provided that both elasticities are greater than -1, parental consumption decreases with fertility, and
likewise moves onto a steeper part of the utility curve.
The assumption that these elasticities are greater than -1 is simply an assumption that total
expenditure on child quality and housing increase with the number of children.
d ln(nrh) = d ln n + d ln r + d ln h = d ln n

1 + d ln h
d ln n

> 0 ⇐⇒ϵh,n > −1
(A4.4)
d ln(ni) = d ln n + d ln i
= d ln n

1 + d ln i
d ln n

> 0 ⇐⇒ϵi,n > −1
26Becker and Lewis’s (1973) assumptions on preferences are only those that are necessary for an interior optimum to
exist (instead focusing on the implication of quantity increasing the shadow price of quality and vice versa in the budget
constraint), and so weak separability is not incompatible with their framework.
27I prove this in Section A4.2.
A-6


Build, Baby, Build
Couillard
If this assumption were violated, then the family would respond to an additional child by decreasing
the size of its house and its total expenditure on child quality. A family may reasonably keep these
items constant in response to an additional child, but most would increase expenditure on these
items such that on average these assumptions hold.
Because per-child investment and parental consumption have higher marginal utility at higher
fertility, there is also a higher marginal utility of having resources available to spend on them –
that is, a higher marginal utility of avoiding housing costs. Larger families are thus more sensitive
to housing costs, and in the sorting model they will have a rent coeﬃcient that is more negative.
Additionally, they will consume a larger quantity of housing, spend more of their budget on housing,
and have a larger marginal utility of housing.
A4.2
Weak Separability
In this section I show that weak separability allows the utility maximization problem to be written
as a nested problem, where child quality, housing, and parental consumption are chosen in an inner
problem conditional on the number of children, and fertility is chosen in an outside problem on the
basis of preferences for fertility per se and how it aﬀects the value of the inner problem.
In this context, the deﬁnition of weak separability is that for any bundles z = (q, c, h), z′ =
(q′, c′, h′)
U(n, z) ≥U(n, z′) =⇒U(n′, z) ≥U(n′, z′) ∀n, n′.
(A4.5)
That is, preferences for one bundle of (q, c, h) versus another do not depend on which n is chosen.
Then, we may deﬁne a utility function u(q, c, h) (with cardinality following from some normal-
ization) that does not depend on n, while n does aﬀect the optimal choices of (q, c, h) through its
inﬂuence on the budget constraint.
Now deﬁne a function
U(n, s) = U(n, zs)
(A4.6)
for any bundle zs that generates u(zs) = s. Because u is increasing in all arguments, U is increasing
in s.
Finally, observe that for the inner problem’s optimal bundle (q∗, c∗, h∗) and indirect utility
v(n, r, y) = u(q∗, c∗, h∗) we have
U(n, q∗, c∗, h∗) = U(n, u(q∗, c∗, h∗)) = U(n, v(n, r, y)),
(A4.7)
and hence we may maximize U by choosing n to maximize U directly and through its impact on the
inner problem’s value.
A-7


Build, Baby, Build
Couillard
A5
Deriving Housing Demand
Given the structure of the overall model, we can derive a standard residential choice model that uses
the aggregated housing choice probabilities to estimate housing utility parameters.
To see this, write the housing choice probabilities (probability of choosing housing option h
conditional on being type τ) as a function of the fundamental choice probabilities (probability of
choosing housing-fertility option (g, h) conditional on being in state x):
P τ
h = Pr(h, τ)
Pr(τ)
=
P
(x′,g′):τ(x′,g′)=τ P x′
g′h
P
(x′,g′):τ(x′,g′)=τ
P
h′ P x′
g′h′
(A5.1)
The numerator of the fundamental choice probability in the numerator features a housing utility that
by virtue of its index τ is common to all terms in the summation, and so can be factored out:
X
(g′,x′):τ(g′,x′)=τ
exp(uτ(g′,x′)
h
+ αx′
g′ + cx′
g′) = exp(uτ
h)
X
(g′,x′):τ(g′,x′)=τ
exp(αx′
g′ + cx′
g′).
(A5.2)
That utility is the sole term that is indexed by h, and so the choice probability is proportional to this
exponentiated utility, exactly as in a standard logit model with choice over h alone:
P τ
h = exp(uτ
h)Kτ.
(A5.3)
Provided that a type ﬁxed eﬀect is included in the model, the parameters of uτ
h can be estimated
with maximum likelihood or by log-linearizing.
A6
Micro-BLP Mis-speciﬁcation
A6.1
Theorem and Proof
A standard Micro-BLP model:
ui
j = X′
jβi + ξj + ϵj
i,
βi ∼N(β + Πyi, ΣΣ′).
(A6.1)
The micro-BLP estimator uses market shares s, a number of micro-moments which often but not
always grows with J, product characteristics X, and instruments Z. Notably, unobserved utility ξ is
constrained to be constant over demographics.
Now consider an alternate model:
ui
j = X′
jβi + ξi
j + ϵj
i,
βi ∼N(β + Πyi, ΣΣ′),
ξi
j = ξj + Γjyi,
(A6.2)
A-8


Build, Baby, Build
Couillard
that is, where unobservable utility is allowed to vary over demographics but follows some structure
such that it is separately identiﬁed from ϵi
j. Or, more concisely, each ﬁne demographic group g
gets its own unobservable utility ξg(i)
j
. The following result shows that the standard Micro-BLP
model that constrains residuals to be constant over demographics generates testable restrictions on
micro-moments when there are suﬃciently many micro-moments, and that for generic data (that is,
data that obeys accounting identities but which otherwise is not assumed to follow any particular
pattern) the probability that these restrictions will be satisﬁed has measure zero.
Theorem: for J suﬃciently large, ﬁxed demographic speciﬁcation, local identiﬁcation, and a
micro-moment set that grows with J, the Micro-BLP DGP generates observed data with probability
zero and is mis-speciﬁed in the population.
Proof: Collect parameters and errors into θ = (β, Π, Σ, ξ). Collect market shares and micro-
moments into a vector W. These parameters and errors generate the data in a system of equations
W = f(θ).
(A6.3)
Let the dimensionality of θ be P, and the dimensionality of W (excluding linearly dependent
equations) be D. The function f maps a point in the parameter space into the data space, and by
virtue of the Micro-BLP model is continuously diﬀerentiable: f : Θ ⊂RP →RD, f ∈C1. Given
local identiﬁcation, the Jacobian of f has full rank.
Given these assumptions, under the Implicit Function Theorem and/or the the Constant Rank
Theorem, the image of f is a manifold of (at most) dimension P in RD. Parameters θ span (at
most) RP, which the non-linear function f maps into a space that is locally euclidean of (at most)
dimension P but globally non-euclidean: a manifold.
If D > P, the image of f has measure zero. The model generates the set of unrestricted data
with probability zero, and so the model is mis-speciﬁed in the population.
When the number J of products j increases by one, a single ξj is appended to θ. However, since
the number of micro-moments grows with J, a market share sj and multiple micro-moments are
appended to W. (Without mis-match between the market shares and micro-moments the market
shares are sometimes functions of the micro-moments, but because the demographic shares that
would be used to calculate the market shares from demographics are generally not passed into the
estimation routine, they are non-redundant moments.) As J grows, D grows by more than P. Thus
for a suﬃciently large J∗, D > P, and Micro-BLP is mis-speciﬁed in the population. QED
The substantive assumptions in this proof are that (1) unobserved utility ξ is constant over
demographics, and (2) the number of micro-moments increases with J. The ﬁrst assumption
is relaxed by the alternate DGP I specify. The second is true when the micro-moments are
“partially dis-aggregated market shares” or market shares calculated over individual dimensions
A-9


Build, Baby, Build
Couillard
of demographics Pr(j|dℓ(i)), average consumer characteristics by product E[yi|j], or covariances
between characteristics of the ﬁrst and second choice C(xj, xk(−j)|j, k). The second assumption
is not true when the micro-moments are average product characteristics conditional on individual
dimensions of demographics E[xj|dℓ(i)] or covariances between product and consumer characteristics
C(xj, yi) are used, because these aggregate over products and do not grow with the number of
products.
A6.2
Example
The threshold J∗need not be particularly large. Consider the following example with two dimensions
of individual heterogeneity (a, s), no random coeﬃcients, and the outside option included in the
count J:
ui
j = X′
jβ(as)(i) + ξj + ϵi
j,
βas
k = βk + βa
k + βs
k
(A6.4)
The dimensionality of θ is P = K(1 + A −1 + S −1) + J −1. For each characteristic, there is
a baseline coeﬃcient, and one age group and sex group each is normalized to have a zero coeﬃcient.
The outside option residual is normalized to zero.
With micro-moments of the form P(j|dℓ(i)), the number of equations is D = J −1 + A(J −
1) + S(J −1). There are aggregate and age- and sex-speciﬁc market shares, where the share for the
outside option is a deterministic function of the others.
We then have
D > P ⇐⇒J −1 + A(J −1) + S(J −1) > K(A + S −1) + J −1
⇐⇒AJ + SJ > AK + SK −K + A + S
⇐⇒J > (A + S)(K + 1) −K
A + S
⇐⇒J > K + 1 −
K
A + S .
(A6.5)
For K = 1, accounting for integer constraints, we have J∗= 2: the model is mis-speciﬁed when
there is a single inside product. Supposing there are two age groups and two sexes, there is a
single inside market share, two age micro-moments, and two sex micro-moments, for a total of ﬁve
moments. However, there is only the baseline coeﬃcient, a coeﬃcient for the non-default age group,
and a coeﬃcient for the non-default sex, plus one error, for a total of a four-element parameter-error
vector.
Next, I depict this mis-speciﬁcation numerically.
I let x1 = 1, β = βa1 = βs1 = 1,
(ξa0
1 , ξa1
1 , ξs0
1 , ξs1
1 ) = (−1.5, −0.5, 0.5, 1.5), and each group equal to a quarter of the population.
This generates an aggregate market share and four micro-moments that obey accounting identities.
A-10


Build, Baby, Build
Couillard
Figure 18
In the ﬁgure below, I let all coeﬃcients be equal to their true values, and I let the single ξj ﬁt the
aggregate sj. Because there are ﬁve moments plus a total of four parameters and errors, no single j
is able to rationalize the data – the true parameters plus the single error can only rationalize a single
moment at time.
More product characteristics in the model increases the number of parameters, increasing J∗at
a rate less than 1. Adding dimensions of heterogeneity pushes the rate at which J∗increases with K
up towards 1. Adding random coeﬃcients would also increase the number of parameters, increasing
J∗, but because the number of parameters does not grow with J there would still be ﬁnite J∗.
A7
Suﬃcient Statistics: Choice Models
Because the case of an arbitrary number of dimensions of heterogeneity each with an arbitrary
number of dimensions requires complex and opaque notation, I illustrate these principles using the
simplest possible setting.
A-11


Build, Baby, Build
Couillard
A7.1
Setup
Assume a standard logit problem with a choice variable j (say, neighborhood of residence) and
heterogeneity of preferences over two dimensions age a and sex s. There is a single characteristic
xj. Utility up to the EVT1 shock is
uas
j = (˜β + ˜βa + ˜βs)xj + ξas
j
=⇒uas
j = (βa + βs)xj + ξas
j ,
(A7.1)
where in the ﬁrst equation we write a baseline utility ˜β with one level each of ˜βa and ˜βs normalized
to zero, and in the second the baseline utility is absorbed into one of the heterogeneity dimensions
such that all coeﬃcients in that dimension are shifted by ˜β and no level is normalized.
Then, the probability of an agent with demographics (a, s) choosing j is
P as
j
=
exp((βa + βs)xj + ξas
j )
P
k exp((βa + βs)xk + ξas
k ),
(A7.2)
and the number of agents (the Poisson estimating equation) with demographics (a, s) choosing j is
the product of the total number of (a, s) agents and that probability:
N as
j
= P as
j N as = exp(αas + βaxj + βsxj + ξas
j )
(A7.3)
where
exp(αas) =
N as
P
j exp(βaxj + βsxj + ξas
j ).
(A7.4)
As shown by Guimaraes et al (2003), after making this substitution the logit and Poisson likelihoods
have the same maximizer ˆβ, and so this logit model (with no endogeneity) can be estimated with
PPML, with the demographic ﬁxed eﬀect αas absorbing the choice probability denominator and the
number of agents of group (a, s).
Let dropped indexes denote aggregation, so that the marginal distributions are
N a
j =
X
s
N as
j ,
N s
j =
X
a
N as
j ,
N as =
X
j
N as
j .
(A7.5)
These counts N a
j , N s
j , N as are the counts of population (or households) over tract-age, tract-sex,
and age-sex. The ﬁrst two are published by the US Census Bureau as outputs from the Decennial
Census and American Community Survey, whereas the last one is both published and derivable
from microdata.
Remark: Note that (aside from the error term) the Poisson estimating equation contains additive
terms varying at the (a, s), (j, a), (j, s) levels, and no term (aside from the error term) varies at the
A-12


Build, Baby, Build
Couillard
(j, a, s) level. This is the critical condition for the following results that assume that N as, N a
j , N s
j are
observed while N as
j
is not. Note that additive separability on preferences, βas = βa + βs, generates
this condition. If we let uas
j = βasxj + ξas
j then we would need to observe N as
j .
We may also write N as
j
in terms of ﬁxed eﬀects (with a distinct error term since ﬁxed eﬀects
explain at least as much as continuous explanatory variables):
N as
j
= exp(µs
j + µa
j + µas + ηas
j ).
(A7.6)
Let ˆN as
j
be the IPF-estimated count using the three two-dimensional marginal distributions:
ˆN as
j
= IPF(N a
j , N s
j , N as).
(A7.7)
Let ˆωas
j be the error in the IPF-estimated count:
ˆωas
j = N as
j −ˆN as
j .
(A7.8)
Because IPF matches the observed margins exactly, we have
X
j
ˆN as
j
= N as,
X
a
ˆN as
j
= N s
j ,
X
s
ˆN as
j
= N a
j
(A7.9)
and so
X
j
ˆωas
j = 0 ∀(a, s),
X
a
ˆωas
j = 0 ∀(j, s),
X
s
ˆωas
j = 0 ∀(j, a).
(A7.10)
A7.2
Theorem 1
For any exponential conditional mean model with log-mean additively separable across the
(j, a), (j, s), (a, s) margins, ˆN as
j provides the same point estimates as N as
j when used as a dependent
variable.
A7.3
Proof of Theorem 1
Let N as
j
= exp(λas + λa
j + λs
j + τ as
j ), where each λ may be FE or coeﬃcient with explanatory
variable.
For count outcome N as
j
the log-likelihood is
A-13


Build, Baby, Build
Couillard
L =
X
j
X
a
X
s
N as
j (ˆλas + ˆλa
j + ˆλs
j) −exp(ˆλas + ˆλa
j + ˆλs
j)
(A7.11)
=
X
a
X
s
N asˆλas +
X
j
X
a
N a
j ˆλa
j +
X
j
X
s
N s
j ˆλs
j −
X
j
X
a
X
s
exp(ˆλas + ˆλa
j + ˆλs
j),
where we have simply factored ˆλas out of the summation over j so that we may use P
j N as
j
= N as,
and analogously for λa
j and λs
j, exploiting additive separability on preferences in the Poisson
log-likelihood (one can use the exact same manipulation on the logit log-likelihood, which has the
same maximizers). Thus the three margins N as, N a
j , N s
j are suﬃcient statistics for ˆλ. QED
A7.4
Corollary 1
The two-step estimator – where (1) product ﬁxed eﬀects and heterogeneous slopes are estimated,
and then (2) the product ﬁxed eﬀect is regressed on explanatory variables to recover the baseline
utility coeﬃcient – provides identical point estimates regardless of whether N as
j
or ˆN as
j
is used as
the dependent variable.
A7.5
Proof of Corollary 1
By the same argument as the proof of Theorem 1, Nj is suﬃcient for δj, and so the maximum
likelihood estimator is the same regardless of whether Nj or microdata are used. Then, the second
step 2SLS regression has the same δj, X, and Z regardless of whether Nj or microdata are used.
Because N a
j and N s
j both imply Nj, the three two-way margins N a
j , N s
j , and N as are suﬃcient for
the Bayer et al. (2007) estimator.
A8
Suﬃcient Statistics: Other Models
Using the same setup as above.
A8.1
Lemma 1
The maximizer ˆµ for the Poisson log-likelihood
L =
X
a
X
s
X
j
N as
j (ˆµa
j + ˆµs
j + ˆµas) −exp(ˆµa
j + ˆµs
j + ˆµas)
(A8.1)
satisﬁes
exp(ˆµa
j + ˆµs
j + ˆµas) = ˆN as
j
= IPF(N a
j , N s
j , N as).
(A8.2)
A-14


Build, Baby, Build
Couillard
A8.2
Proof of Lemma 1
The IPF algorithm consists of (1) initializing cells of the unobserved joint distribution with a positive
count (e.g., 1/N), (2) cycling through marginal distributions, updating joint distribution counts
proportionally so that at each stage a diﬀerent marginal distribution ﬁts exactly:
ˆN as
j (r) = ˆN as
j (r −1) ·
N a
j
P
s′ ˆN as′
j (r −1)
ˆN as
j (r + 1) = ˆN as
j (r)
·
N s
j
P
a′ ˆN a′s
j (r)
(A8.3)
ˆN as
j (r + 2) = ˆN as
j (r + 1) ·
N as
P
j′ ˆN as
j′ (r + 1)
,
and (3) halting upon convergence below a speciﬁed tolerance.
Every IPF update strictly increases the log-likelihood, unless the margin already ﬁt, in which
case the increase is zero. Consider an update of the (j, a) margin, using the deﬁnition of the update
and the fact that the grand totals always match the data:
L(r) −L(r −1) =
X
a
X
s
X
j
N as
j (ln ˆN as
j (r) −ln ˆN as
j (r −1))
(A8.4)
+
X
a
X
s
X
j
ˆN as
j (r) −ˆN as
j (r −1)
=
X
a
X
s
X
j
N as
j
 
ln
 
N a
j
P
s′ ˆN as′
j (r −1)
· ˆN as
j (r −1)
!
−ln ˆN as
j (r −1)
!
+ ˆN(r) −ˆN(r −1)
=
X
a
X
s
X
j
N as
j
 
ln
 
N a
j
P
s′ ˆN as′
j (r −1)
!
+ ln ˆN as
j (r −1) −ln ˆN as
j (r −1)
!
+ N −N
=
X
a
X
s
X
j
N as
j ln
 
N a
j
P
s′ ˆN as′
j (r −1)
!
To see that this term is positive, consider the following function:
f(x) = x ln x −x + 1,
f ′(x) = x
x + ln x −1 = ln x,
f ′′(x) = 1
x > 0.
(A8.5)
This convex function achieves its unique minimum at x = 1, and therefore x ln x ≥1 −x with
equality only at x = 1. Now, let x = N a
j / P
s′ ˆN as′
j (r −1), rearrange the expression, and again use
A-15


Build, Baby, Build
Couillard
the perfectly-ﬁtting grand totals:
N a
j
P
s′ ˆN as′
j (r −1)
ln
 
N a
j
P
s′ ˆN as′
j (r −1)
!
≥1 −
N a
j
P
s′ ˆN as′
j (r −1)
(A8.6)
=⇒N as
j ln
 
N a
j
P
s′ ˆN as′
j (r −1)
!
≥
X
s′
ˆN as′
j (r −1) −N a
j = ˆN a
j (r −1) −N a
j
=⇒
X
a
X
j
N as
j ln
 
N a
j
P
s′ ˆN as′
j (r −1)
!
≥ˆN(r −1) −N = 0 ∀s.
Every update strictly increases the log-likelihood, unless the margin already ﬁts. When every margin
ﬁts, the algorithm has converged. At this point, the gradient of the log-likelihood is zero, and the
likelihood is maximized.
A8.3
Lemma 2
Z′ˆω = 0, where Z is any stacked variable that varies (or sum of stacked variables that vary) at the
(j, a), (j, s), (a, s) level.
A8.4
Proof of Lemma 2
Collect all ﬁxed eﬀects into a single parameter vector θ. Deﬁne sets of vertical vectors Aa
j, Bs
j, Cas
corresponding to the ﬁxed eﬀects µa
j, µs
j, µas. They have as many rows as there are counts N as
j , with
elements equal to 1 if the indexes match the row index and 0 otherwise. Horizontally concatenate
them to create D, which then has as many columns as ﬁxed eﬀects. Taking a single row of D, we
then have
ˆN as
j
= exp(Das
j · ˆθ)
(A8.7)
and so the log-likelihood and gradient are
L =
X
a
X
s
X
j
N as
j Das
j · ˆθ −exp(Das
j · ˆθ)
∂L
∂ˆθ
=
X
a
X
s
X
j
N as
j Das
j −ˆN as
j Das
j
(A8.8)
=
X
a
X
s
X
j
ˆωas
j Das
j ,
A-16


Build, Baby, Build
Couillard
which is equal to zero at the optimum. This condition may be rewritten as
D′ˆω =



A′ˆω
B′ˆω
C′ˆω


=⃗0.
(A8.9)
The errors in the counts are thus orthogonal to every column of D, a well-known property of the
Poisson estimator. In this speciﬁc case, the errors are orthogonal to the indicators that deﬁne every
ﬁxed eﬀect that varies at the (j, a), (j, s), (a, s) level (every column of A, B, and C), and hence
Z′ˆω =⃗0,
(A8.10)
where Z is any variable that varies (or sum of variables that vary) at the (j, a), (j, s), (a, s) level,
due to collinearity of Z and D.
A8.5
Theorem 2
OLS and just-identiﬁed 2SLS models where the count is the dependent variable and the conditional
mean is additively separable across the (j, a), (j, s), (a, s) margins provide the same point estimates
regardless of whether N as
j
or ˆN as
j
is used.
A8.6
Proof of Theorem 2
Let each λ be either a ﬁxed eﬀect or a linear coeﬃcient on an explanatory variable:
N as
j
= λas + λa
j + λs
j + τ as
j
=⇒
ˆN as
j
= λas + λa
j + λs
j + τ as
j −ˆωas
j
(A8.11)
Any endogenous explanatory variable either varies at one level with heterogeneous coeﬃcients, or
varies at two levels with a single coeﬃcient. Thus, the instrument must also vary at a maximum of two
levels, and the ﬁrst stage conditional mean is also additively separable across the (j, a), (j, s), (a, s)
margins.
The diﬀerence between the parameter estimates is (letting Z = X in the case of OLS)
ˆβN −ˆβ
ˆ
N = (Z′X)−1Z′ˆω.
(A8.12)
By Lemma 2, Z′ˆω = 0 because in the cases of OLS and 2SLS Z is additively separable across the
(j, a), (j, s), (a, s) margins, and so ˆβN = ˆβ ˆ
N.
A-17


Build, Baby, Build
Couillard
A8.7
Corollary 2
models where the log count is the dependent variable and the conditional mean is additively separable
across the (j, a), (j, s), (a, s) margins provide the same point estimates regardless of whether N as
j
or ˆN as
j
is used, provided that the model is estimated with PPML.
A8.8
Proof of Corollary 2
Proof: Follows directly from Theorem 1.
Remark: Often in reduced-form contexts, models with log counts as dependent variable are of
greater interest than the untransformed counts. This corollary states that ˆN as
j
can be used in these
cases, but with PPML rather than OLS, since ln ˆN as
j
= ln(N as
j −ˆωas
j ) is not additive in ˆωas
j . Such a
model is econometrically identical to that discussed in Theorem 1, dropping only the choice model
interpretation.
ln(N as
j ) = λas + λa
j + λs
j + τ as
j
=⇒
ˆN as
j
= exp(λas + λa
j + λs
j + τ as
j ) −ˆωas
j
(A8.13)
A8.9
Theorem 3
OLS and just-identiﬁed 2SLS models where the dependent variable is a count as a share of an
observed margin, and where the conditional mean is in the space of the observed margin, provide
the same point estimates regardless of whether N as
j
or ˆN as
j
is used.
A8.10
Proof of Theorem 3
Without loss, divide the counts by N a
j . We cannot include in the conditional mean any terms indexed
by s. λa
j may be a ﬁxed eﬀect, a heterogeneous coeﬃcient on an explanatory variable that varies
over one dimension, or a coeﬃcient on an explanatory variable that varies over two dimensions.
Thus, in the case of 2SLS the instrument varies at 2 levels at most.
N as
j
N a
j
= λa
j + τ as
j
=⇒
ˆN as
j
N a
j
= λa
j + τ as
j −ˆωas
j
N a
j
(A8.14)
The diﬀerence between the parameter estimates is (letting Z = X in the case of OLS)
ˆβN −ˆβ
ˆ
N = (Z′X)−1Z′
 ˆω
N A
J

.
(A8.15)
A-18


Build, Baby, Build
Couillard
In summation notation,
Z′
 ˆω
N A
J

=
X
j
X
a
X
s
za
j
ˆωas
j
N a
j
=
X
j
X
a
za
j
N a
j
X
s
ˆωas
j
| {z }
0
= 0
(A8.16)
and so ˆβN = ˆβ ˆ
N. This argument holds when za
j is replaced by an instrument that varies at a lower
level, a continuous explanatory variable in the structural equation, or an indicator that deﬁnes ﬁxed
eﬀects in the structural equation.
Remark: We restrict the conditional mean to (j, a) space because the argument fails once a term
indexed by s is included. To see this, consider the following model:
ˆN as
j
N a
j
= βsxj + τ as
j −ˆωas
j
N a
j
.
(A8.17)
But now, we cannot isolate ˆωas
j in a summation over s, or j or a, because each index appears on at
least one other term:
X
j
X
a
X
s
βsxj
ˆωas
j
N a
j̸
= 0.
(A8.18)
A9
Housing Demand Estimation Details
A9.1
Agents To Households
Fundamentally, we wish to understand the behavior of the adults who comprise the households,
and so revealed-preference estimators require data on counts of adults. With the data used in
housing demand estimation, I assume that family households are comprised of two household
decisionmakers, with the other members being children or extras:
N aefs
jbt
=
( ˆHae0s
jbt
× s
if
f = 0
ˆHae1s
jbt
× 2
if
f = 1.
(A9.1)
This is consistent with letting housing utility be zero for adult children and extras: they unilaterally
add themselves to the host household (increasing its size and thus housing preferences) but do not
participate in the housing decision – and since they are distinguished only in the microdata we do
not speciﬁcally observe the housing decisions of their hosts anyway. The only assumption that
has any bite is that data constraints require ignoring single-parent families, although these families
are included in the fertility model. I also assume that every person in a non-family household is a
decision-making adult, which should not be problematic because it is extremely rare for children to
A-19


Build, Baby, Build
Couillard
live without a guardian (non-blood-related guardians are treated as family relationships by the Census
Bureau). Because not every input marginal distribution is indexed by f and s, this transformation
can only be applied after IPF estimation.
A9.2
Transforming Rent So Suﬃciency Results Apply
Substituting Equation 4.11 into Equation 4.10 and inspecting the rent term, we obtain
βτ
r rjbt = βrjbt + βarjbt + βerjbt + βfrjbt + βsrjbt.
(A9.2)
Applying the heuristic for suﬃciency, we must observe the counts Njbt, N a
jbt, N e
jbt, N f
jbt, N s
jbt.
Unfortunately, we do not observe N a
jbt, N f
jbt, N s
jbt, because the only observed tract-level marginal
distribution over j, b, and some other dimension is N e
jbt.
I address this problem by constructing a rent variable that has a tract component and a
PUMA-bedrooms component using regression:
rjbt = ζjt + ζpt(j),b,t + νjbt =⇒ˆrj,b,t = ˆζjt + ˆζpt(j),b,t.
(A9.3)
Using this term in housing utility:
βτ
r ˆrjbt = βr ˆζjt + βr ˆζpt(j),b,t + βa
r ˆζjt + βa
r ˆζpt(j),b,t
(A9.4)
+ βe
r ˆζjt + βe
r ˆζpt(j),b,t + βf
r ˆζjt + βf
r ˆζpt(j),b,t + βs
r ˆζjt + βs
r ˆζpt(j),b,t,
and so the marginal distributions of tract with demographics, and of PUMA with everything (except
tract) are suﬃcient. This is why I use PUMA as the higher-level geography in IPF estimation –
although only city (larger than PUMA) is required for the city-type-year ﬁxed eﬀects, PUMA ﬁxed
eﬀects ﬁt the rent regression above better and allow more geographic-bedrooms variation in rents to
be retained. Hereafter, I refer to ˆrjbt with rjbt to keep notation simple.
A9.3
Exposure Variable
A location may have a large number of agents (or a high market share) because it provides a high
utility, or simply because it is large. Therefore, some size adjustment is necessary for location choice
problems. Given two locations of equivalent utility but diﬀerent sizes, we would expect both to
have the same density and for the larger one to have proportionally more people, motivating treating
counts as proportional to size – a Poisson exposure variable. Area-based measures are diﬃcult to
work with since one must take a stand on what sorts of land qualify – much land in the world is
inhospitable, which could be addressed with more amenities data or a measure of “habitable” or
A-20


Build, Baby, Build
Couillard
“buildable” land, but this poses a large burden. Housing-unit-based measures can pose their own
problems, since they are a measure of quantity that is determined in a long run equilibrium of supply
and demand, but they can be satisfying under the assumption that supply is ﬁxed in the short run.
A9.4
Suﬃciency
I show that the observed marginal distributions are suﬃcient statistics for the housing choice model
when the decision-makers are taken to be households H28. For rents, I use rjbt = ζjt + ζpt(j),b,t as
discussed in Section A9.2, and I use the additive separability assumption βτ −β = βa+βe+βf +βs.
The log-likelihood for the ﬁrst stage of the housing choice model is given below, where δjbt
absorbs baseline preferences and the exposure variable.
L =
X
j
X
b
X
t
X
a
X
e
X
f
X
s
Haefs
jbt
 ˆδjbt + (ˆβτ
r −ˆβr)(ζjt + ζpt(j)bt) + (ˆβτ
b −ˆβb)
(A9.5)
+ (ˆβτ
m −ˆβm)mjt + (ˆβτ
x −ˆβx)xj + ˆϕaefs
c(j)t

We may group Haefs
jbt
with each term in the parenthetical, factor it out of various summations,
and sum Haefs
jbt
within the summations that the other term has been factored out of.
L =
X
j
X
b
X
t
ˆδjbtHjbt
(A9.6)
+
X
j
X
t
X
a
ζjt ˆβa
r Ha
jt +
X
j
X
t
X
e
ζjt ˆβe
rHe
jt +
X
j
X
t
X
f
ζjt ˆβf
r Hf
jt +
X
j
X
t
X
s
ζjt ˆβs
rHs
jt
+
X
t
X
pt
X
b
X
a
ζptbt ˆβa
r Ha
ptbt +
X
t
X
pt
X
b
X
e
ζptbt ˆβe
rHe
ptbt
+
X
t
X
pt
X
b
X
f
ζptbt ˆβf
r Hf
ptbt +
X
t
X
pt
X
b
X
s
ζptbt ˆβs
rHs
ptbt
+
X
b
X
a
ˆβa
b Ha
b +
X
b
X
e
ˆβe
bHe
b +
X
b
X
f
ˆβf
b Hf
b +
X
b
X
s
ˆβs
bHs
b
+
X
j
X
t
X
a
mjt ˆβa
mHa
jt +
X
j
X
t
X
e
mjt ˆβe
mHe
jt +
X
j
X
t
X
f
mjt ˆβf
mHf
jt +
X
j
X
t
X
s
mjt ˆβs
mHs
jt
+
X
j
X
a
xj ˆβa
xHa
j +
X
j
X
e
xj ˆβe
xHe
j +
X
j
X
f
xj ˆβf
xHf
j +
X
j
X
s
xj ˆβs
xHs
j
+
X
t
X
c
X
a
X
e
X
f
X
s
ˆϕaefs
ct
Haefs
ct
28As discussed in Section A9.1, I must convert counts of households to counts of decision-making agents after IPF
estimation and before housing demand estimation.
A-21


Build, Baby, Build
Couillard
For example, in the ﬁrst line we have used
X
j
X
b
X
t
X
a
X
e
X
f
X
s
Haefs
jbt ˆδjbt =
X
j
X
b
X
t
ˆδjbt
X
a
X
e
X
f
X
s
Haefs
jbt
=
X
j
X
b
X
t
ˆδjbtHjbt.
(A9.7)
Thus, the log-likelihood can be written in terms of Hjbt, Ha
jt, He
jt, Hf
jt, Hs
jt, Ha
ptbt, He
ptbt, Hf
ptbt, Hs
ptbt,
Ha
b , He
b, Hf
b , Hs
b, Ha
j , He
j , Hf
j , Hs
j , Haefs
ct
only, and so these marginal distributions are suﬃcient
statistics for the ﬁrst step of housing demand estimation, and thus the second step as well (which uses
ˆδjbt that are numerically equivalent). In practice, any rectangular dataset that matches these margins
will provide numerically equivalent estimates (up to a numeric tolerance), or a bespoke estimator
that uses the marginal distributions directly can be programmed. I opt to construct a rectangular
dataset that matches the margins using IPF, which I then use in standard computational routines.
A10
Equilibrium Deﬁnition
A partial equilibrium is an input vector of rent shifts and a vector of value functions that satisﬁes the
following conditions.
Housing utility is a linear function of rents.
uτ
jbt = βτ
r rjbt + βτ
b + βτ
mmjt + βτ
xxj + ϕτ
c(j),t + ξτ
jbt.
(4.10)
Value functions are the sum of housing utility, living arrangement utility, and the continuation
value, where the continuation value is the discounted expectation of future values, which depends
on the probability of transition to states given the current state and living arrangement choice and
the inclusive value of each state.
vx
gh = uτ(g,x)
h
+ αx
g
|
{z
}
ﬂow utility
+ δE


X
x′
π(x′ | g, x)
|
{z
}
state transition
× ln

X
h′
X
g′∈G(x′)
exp(vx′
g′h′)


|
{z
}
inclusive value
 Wt(x)
| {z }
infot


|
{z
}
continuation value ≡cxg
.
(4.3)
Living arrangement choice probabilities are the sum of joint choice probabilities, and a function
A-22


Build, Baby, Build
Couillard
of living arrangement utilities, living arrangement continuation values, and housing inclusive values.
P x
g =
X
h
P h
gx =
exp(αx
g + cx
g) P
h exp(uτ(g,x)
h
)
P
h′
P
g′∈G(x) exp(αx
g′ + cg′ + uτ(g′,x)
h′
)
.
(5.5)
The distribution of agents over states in the next period is given by an accounting relationship
that depends on the distribution of agents over states in the current period, current period living
arrangement choice probabilities, an endogenous increase from fertility, and exogenous changes
from mortality and net migration.
N ˜x,t+1 =
X
˜x′
X
g∈G(x)
π(˜x, t + 1|˜z′, x′, g, t)N ˜x′tP ˜x′t
g
+ ∆˜x,t+1
fertility + ∆˜x,t+1
mortality + ∆˜x,t+1
net migration.
(5.11)
Agents believe that the next period distribution of agents over states is deterministically the point
estimate from an autoregression with ﬁxed eﬀects and time trends.
N ˜x,t+1 ≈˜N ˜x,t+1 = ˆψ0N ˜xt + ˆψ˜x
1 + ˆψ˜x
2t,
(5.13)
The distribution of children aged 10-19 (and 20-29 analogously) in a household in the next
period is given by a binomial distribution where the number of trials is the number of children and
the probability is the endogenous probability of children of the relevant state choosing to live with
their parents.
Pr(n10−19 = k|x, n0−9,t−1) =

n0−9,t−1!
k!(n0−9,t−1 −k)!
  P 10−19,t,imm(x)
par
k ×
 1 −P 10−19,t,imm(x)
par
(n0−9,t−1)−k ,
(4.5)
The total number of extras is the sum of all agents who choose to be extras.
N t
extras =
X
˜x
N ˜xtP ˜xt
extra.
(4.6)
Agent states (excluding year) are mapped to an “extras group” w, which receives a constant
share of all extras that comes directly from the data.
sw(˜x) =
P
t
P
˜x′:w(˜x′)=w(˜x) N ˜x′te(x′)
P
t
P
˜x′′ N ˜x′′te(x′′)
.
(4.7)
The number of extras that an “extras group” receives is its allocated share of the total number of
extras.
N w(˜x),t
extras = sw(˜x)N t
extras.
(4.8)
A-23


Build, Baby, Build
Couillard
The distribution of extras that an agent hosts is a binomial distribution where the number of
trials is the number of extras that an “extras group” receives and the probability is the reciprocal of
the number of agents in the “extras group” (every agent in the group has an equal probability).
Pr(extras = e|x) =


N w(˜x),t
extras !
e!

N w(˜x),t
extras −e

!



1
N w(˜x),t
e 
1 −
1
N w(˜x),t
Nw(˜x),t
extras
−e
.
(4.9)
Agents form expectations of future values using an autoregression with ﬁxed eﬀects and time
trends.
v˜x,t+1
g
= ρ0v˜x,t
g
+ ρ˜x
g,1 + ρ˜x
g,2t + e˜x,t+1
g
(5.8)
Conditional on a vector of value function error terms d, the distribution of children aged 10-19
(and 20-29 analogously) in a household in the next period is given by a binomial distribution where
the number of trials is the number of children and the probability is the endogenous probability of
children of the relevant state choosing to live with their parents which depends on the draw.
Pr(n10−19 = k|x, n0−9,t−1, d) =

n0−9,t−1!
k!(n0−9,t−1 −k)!
  P 10−19,t,imm(x),d
par
k ×
 1 −P 10−19,t,imm(x),d
par
(n0−9,t−1)−k .
(5.10)
Conditional on a vector of value function error terms d, the number of extras that an extras group
believes they will receive depends on their prediction of the distribution of agents over states and the
endogenous probabilities of agents choosing to be extras which depends on the draw.
˜N ˜x,t+1,d
extras
= sw(˜x) X
˜x′
˜N ˜x′,t+1P ˜x,t+1,d
extra
.
(5.14)
Conditional on a vector of value function error terms d, agents believe that the distribution of
extras that they will host is a binomial distribution where the number of trials is the number of extras
they believe their group will receive (which depends on the draw) and the probability parameter is
the reciprocal of the number of agents they believe will be in the extras group.
Pr(extras = e|˜x, t + 1, d) =

˜N w(˜x),t+1,d
extras
!
e!( ˜N w(˜x),t+1,d
extras
−e)!

1
˜N w(˜x),t+1
e
1 −
1
˜N w(˜x),t+1
 ˜
Nw(˜x),t+1,d
extras
−e
.
(5.15)
An equilibrium is an input vector of supply shifts and a vector of value functions that satisfy the
conditions above, and the following conditions.
A-24


Build, Baby, Build
Couillard
Housing choice probabilities are a logit function of housing utilities.
P τ
h = exp(uτ
h)Kτ.
(A5.3)
Right to left (recalling h = (j, b)). The number of agents in a housing type is the sum over agents
who make living arrangement choices in states which in combination render them that housing
type. The number of agents who are of a given housing type and choose a given housing option
is the product of the number of agents of that housing type and the probability that agents of that
housing type choosing that housing option. Roommate households are completely comprised of
decisionmaking agents while family households are assumed to have two decisionmaking agents
(even as they may host others who do not participate in the housing decision) such that the number
of households can be obtained from inverting those functions. The total number of households of
a given housing type choosing a housing option is a sum of the number of households of a given
housing type who choose that option.
Hjbt =
X
τ
Hτ
jbt,
Hτ
jbt =
(
N τ
jbt/s(τ)
if
f(τ) = 0
N τ
jbt/2
if
f(τ) = 1,
N τ
jbt = P τ
jbtN τ,
N τ =
X
(g,x):τ(g,x)=τ
P x
g N x (6.2)
Housing supply has a constant elasticity and heterogeneous intercepts.
ln rjbt = γjb + γjt + γbt + γ−1
j
ln Hjbt + ϵjbt.
(6.1)
A11
Identiﬁcation And Sensitivity
The preferred normalization is that the normalized choice is living alone when the state is non-family,
having zero children and not buying when the state is renter family, and having zero children
when the state is owner family. The alternate normalization used for sensitivity analysis is that the
normalized choice is living in a two-person roommate households when the state is non-family,
having one child and not buying when the state is renter family, and having one child when the state
is owner family. Family households that are unable to have children due to having lost a partner or
being too old continue to have a normalized choice of zero children. The preferred normalization is
preferred because it most closely matches intuitive notions of a default choice.
The alternative normalization provides qualitatively similar but numerically smaller impacts
of housing on fertility. It continues to support the conclusion that a large-unit policy is better for
fertility. Because it provides very similar results for the share of young people that have started a
family and for rents, it seems likely that the diﬀerences arise from the shift in default from zero to
one child, rather than from living alone to with a single roommate for agents that have not started a
family or some inherent instability. This is further evidence that the preferred normalization is more
A-25


Build, Baby, Build
Couillard
appropriate: zero children is much more appealing as an “outside option” than having one child.
Figure 19: Decomposition: Children
Figure 20: Decomposition: TFR
A-26


Build, Baby, Build
Couillard
Figure 21: Decomposition: Share Family, 20-29
Figure 22: Counterfactual: Children
A-27


Build, Baby, Build
Couillard
Figure 23: Counterfactual: TFR
Figure 24: Counterfactual: Share Family, 20-29
A-28


Build, Baby, Build
Couillard
Figure 25: Counterfactual: Rent, 2020
A-29


