RePEc, a Tool and Open Dataset for and about Economists
ECONOMIC RESEARCH
FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF ST. LOUIS
WORKING PAPER SERIES
Authors
Anna Oates Schlaack, and Christian Zimmermann
Working Paper Number
2026-018A
Creation Date
August 2026
Citable Link
https://doi.org/10.20955/wp.2026.018
Suggested Citation
Schlaack, A.O., Zimmermann, C., 2026; RePEc, a Tool and Open Dataset for and
about Economists, Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis Working Paper 2026-018. URL
https://doi.org/10.20955/wp.2026.018
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, Research Division, P.O. Box 442, St. Louis, MO 63166
The views expressed in this paper are those of the author(s) and do not necessarily reflect the views of the Federal Reserve
System, the Board of Governors, or the regional Federal Reserve Banks. Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis Working Papers
are preliminary materials circulated to stimulate discussion and critical comment.


RePEc, a Tool and Open Dataset for and about Economists 
 
Anna Oates Schlaack 
University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign 
University Library 
Urbana, Illinois, USA 
annaio2@illinois.edu 
 
Christian Zimmermann 
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis 
Research Division 
St. Louis, Missouri, USA 
christian.zimmermann@stls.frb.org 
 
Abstract 
RePEc is an initiative created by economists for economists in 1997. It functions primarily as a 
bibliographic tool, but it also collects various linked metadata about economists, their 
institutions, and their impact. Thus, a labor economist may be interested in RePEc beyond 
literature searches and tracking—namely, as a dataset describing a profession, its members, and 
their output. 
This essay describes RePEc’s origins and history, the many facets of its data and how the data 
can be accessed. It also provides some examples of scholarly studies leveraging RePEc data that 
could be of interest to labor economists and lead them to other uses of RePEc data. 
 
JEL Classification: A11, A14, J44, J45 
 
Keywords: RePEc, dataset, sociology of economics, economics profession 
 
 
This text is slated to appear as a chapter in the Handbook of Labor, Human Resources and 
Population Economics edited by Klaus F. Zimmermann at Springer-Nature. This handbook is a 
living reference work that will be updated. The views in this paper are those of the authors and 
do not necessarily reflect the views of the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis or the Federal 
Reserve System. 


 
1. RePEc, a short history 
Publication delays are nothing new in economics. While there may be evidence that delays have 
gotten worse over time (Ellison 2002; Hadavand et al. 2021), they have always been the curse of 
academic economists. But, as economists would predict when a market suffers from major 
frictions, participants adapt to the circumstances. In this case, a culture of disseminating 
preprints, under the name of working papers or discussion papers, emerged among top 
institutions to speed up the visibility of the most recent work. Decades ago, papers would be 
sent by postal mail to friends, other departments, and, in some cases, to paying subscribers.  
This solution had a major drawback, though: Only the top institutions had ways to 
disseminate the frontier of research among their contacts, mostly other top institutions, while the 
rest of the economics profession was left to discover where the frontier of research was a few 
years ago in published journals. This system led to frustration for those left out. 
The emergence of the Internet for broader academic use enabled significant change. In 1992, 
Thomas Krichel, then a graduate student at the University of Surrey, organized lists of working 
paper titles to be disseminated by email using the Coryfee mailing list. In 1993, the late Bob 
Parks, then an associate professor at Washington University in St. Louis, created EconWPA 
using an early arXiv codebase, which allowed the upload and download of working papers 
through email. When a linked file transfer protocol called Gopher was introduced, Thomas 
Krichel and José Manuel Barrueco Cruz, a librarian at the University of Valencia, made 
directories of papers available through that protocol in 1993. After the advent of the World Wide 
Web, the years of cumulated efforts moved to the Web in 1994 and Thomas Krichel created a 
series of websites under the NetEc umbrella that catalogued more and more economic research: 
EconWPA, BibEc, and WoPEc. Eventually, this stream of new papers online became too much 
to handle for a few volunteers to track by themselves. To ensure efforts were sustainable, 
Thomas Krichel developed a schema in 1997 to decentralize the cataloging. Thus, RePEc was 
born.  
RePEc stands for Research Papers in Economics. Its stated goal is to enhance the 
dissemination of economic research, both for authors and readers. Its basic principle is that all 
the necessary indexing of economic literature is decentralized. Each contributing publisher is 
responsible for maintaining an inventory of their publications. For RePEc, a publisher is any 
institution, from an academic press to a university economics department, a research center, a 
think tank, or a policy institution, such as a central bank or a government ministry. Most of these 
institutions have some sort of academic output, which is a major focus in RePEc: formal journal 
articles, books, and chapters or informal working papers or software components. 
The decentralized model ensures that those who benefit the most from RePEc are also those 
who bear the cost of indexing, thus, the core team of RePEc volunteers, initially Thomas 
Krichel, and José Manuel Barrueco Cruz then joined by others, can concentrate on coordinating, 
monitoring, and providing user services. The cost to users can be kept at a minimum (zero 
beyond the labor for indexing by publishers) thanks to some sponsorship for hosting services. 
The data that enter RePEc are available in a machine-readable format, but not in a way that 
is readily consumable by human users for easy discovery across publishers. Thus, the core team 
of volunteers created a set of websites to transform the data and make it more accessible. 
Initially, WoPEc and BibEc provided this access. Later, IDEAS and EconPapers made RePEc 


data available for bibliographic discovery. Other, broader bibliographic tools later started 
indexing RePEc-aggregated metadata, including Google Scholar, OpenAIRE, Proquest, 
OpenAlex, Econlit, and more. (All mentioned websites are listed at the end of this chapter.) 
Over time the scope of the data collected has expanded beyond traditional bibliographic 
items to more robust metadata describing the larger research information lifecycle, such as 
person and institution metadata. The bibliographic services themselves were also enhanced, 
adding features such as extracted references that are matched with items indexed in RePEc, thus 
supporting citation tracking, and disseminating new papers through various channels such as 
email lists.  
In many ways, RePEc was an open research information pioneer, organized before other 
services emerged, such as ORCID, Research Organization Registry (ROR), CrossRef, and 
OpenCITE, which operate across all sciences and were preceded by corresponding RePEc 
services, services that are still active. While RePEc had all its projects natively linked with each 
other from the start, ORCID, ROR, and other services were all independently created and 
without interoperability designed natively. Some, such as ORCID and Google Scholar, even 
started by using seed data from RePEc. 
 
2. A walk through RePEc metadata 
RePEc provides both metadata and user services that also collect additional data that can be 
leveraged by the various RePEc services. This section walks through the different object types as 
a way to describe those RePEc services. 
The foundation of all the data collected by RePEc is the metadata about publications 
provided by the participating publishers. The basic principle is that publishers host the data in a 
“RePEc archive” on their own server—permitted protocols include ftp, http, and https—at a 
web address that is known to RePEc. RePEc further disseminates this address, and the corpus of 
the metadata is thus available in a decentralized fashion to anyone who wants to use it. The core 
RePEc volunteers further add value by presenting the metadata corpus in a searchable way that is 
readily consumable by human users. 
Each publisher’s RePEc archive can contain one or several “RePEc series,” of which there 
are five possible types of works: papers (working papers), articles (journal articles), books, 
chapters (book chapters), and software. Each of the series then contains items with metadata of 
the corresponding work type. At the time of this writing, there are over 2,400 RePEc archives. 
The data are highly decentralized, which can make collecting and interpreting the raw data 
complicated for the end-user. While the data are in a format that can be easily read by a human 
and are machine readable because they have an easy structure and a limited set of elements, the 
format is unique and there is no widespread tool for machine ingest. Thus, a custom interface 
allows end-users to work with this data. An example data template for this chapter is below, with 
some fictitious information for the purpose of a more complete illustration. Note the use of 
handles for cross-linking of data. Other object types follow similar structures. 
 
Template-Type ReDIF-Chapter 1.0 
Title: RePEc, a Tool and Dataset for and about Economists 
Author-Name: Anna Oates Schlaack 


Author-Person: poa7 
Author-Workplace-Name: University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign 
Author-Name: Christian Zimmermann 
Author-Person: pzi1 
Author-Workplace-Name: Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis 
Abstract: RePEc is an initiative created by economists for economists in 1997. […] 
Year: 2026 
Month: September 
File-URL: https://link.springer.com/rwe/10.1007/978-3-319-57365-6_412-1 
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-319-57365-6_412-1 
Classification-JEL: A11, A14, J44, J45 
Book-Title: Handbook of Labor, Human Resources and Population Economics 
In-Book: RePEc:spr:sprbok:978-3-319-57365-6 
Handle: RePEc:spr:sprchp:978-3-319-57365-6_412-1 
 
Two websites, EconPapers and IDEAS, allow the general user to interact with the data: 
browsing through various facets of the data or using an internal search engine. Other services 
like Google Scholar, OpenAlex, Econlit, etc. index RePEc data alongside other resources. In 
addition to EconPapers and IDEAS, RePEc offers two dissemination services for new material, 
NEP (via emails, RSS feed, and social media) and MyIDEAS (via a user account and emails). 
While the publication data are useful for literature discovery, the real power of RePEc is 
realized in the data relationships between object types. Additional RePEc services collect or 
manage data, enabling meaningful connections between publication data or bibliographic 
resources, as well as other object types, such as persons and institutions. This relational data is 
particularly powerful in that the data are natively linked within RePEc through publicly available 
RePEc handles. RePEc services leverage these relationships, adding value to the core data, and 
end-users can easily identify linkages and create networks between object types when using the 
RePEc raw data. 
Many readers should be familiar with the RePEc Author Service, which allows authors to 
create an online profile that lists their publications indexed in RePEc, along with their 
affiliation(s) and various other details about their online presence. An important aspect of this 
service is that the user must explicitly acknowledge and claim authorship of the items the RePEc 
Author Service identified based on author name matches. This author review resolves issues with 
attributions of works across homonyms or near homonyms (initialed names) that could fail with 
automatic attributions. Publishers may provide RePEc author handles in the item records, which 
will automatically match items to authors in the RePEc Author Service. The Author Service also 
links different versions of a work based on two criteria: title similarity and whether the different 
versions of a work are associated with an author’s profile. 
Another set of metadata stems from a service called EDIRC, or Economics Departments, 
Institutes and Research Centers in the World, which actually predates RePEc by two years. 
EDIRC is a directory of institutions that principally employ economists; its metadata is used 


mainly as a controlled vocabulary for affiliations in the RePEc Author Service and to identify 
some publishers. 
The RePEc Genealogy is an academic family tree that collects information about the 
education of registered authors, including year of graduation, institution, and advisor(s). It 
leverages metadata about institutions and persons from EDIRC and the RePEc Author Service, 
respectively. It is an open wiki, so any registered RePEc Author Service user can contribute to 
the collected data. For example, a user might add alumni from their graduate program. 
There is also CitEc, a reference extraction and citation service. It attempts to extract 
references from any indexed item that has corresponding full text that CitEc can access. CitEc 
then attempts to match references with the existing items indexed in RePEc. Because 
commercial publishers have paywalls and do not make references openly available, many 
publishers supply the references separately; authors can also enter missing references in CitEc. 
Finally, CollEc is a project that creates a co-authorship network across registered authors and 
defines various measures of network centrality and network betweenness for each author within 
that network. 
 
 
Figure 1: An illustration of the links between object types in RePEc 
 
 
The universe of RePEc metadata is a mesh linking various object types: archives, series, 
works of different types, persons, and institutions. Even the links can be of various relationship 
types. For example, a link between a person and an institution can be through current affiliation 
or alma mater. A link between a work and an institution can exist because the institution 
published the work or because a person affiliated with the institution authored the work. Finally, 
links between works may exist because they are different versions, references, or citations.  
In addition, all these collected data allow RePEc to create various metrics for evaluating 
RePEc series, authors, their institutions, and graduate programs. The evaluation service, RePEc 
Rankings, supplies many definitions of citation metrics, including various impact factors, the h-
index, Euclidian citation scores, and others. 
At the time of this writing, RePEc collects data from 2,400 archives (publishers), has indexed 
5.5 million works, has 74,000 registered authors (including 27,000 with genealogy records), lists 


15,000 institutions, has extracted 100 million references, and has 36 million citations matched to 
indexed works.  
 
3. How to access RePEc data 
RePEc data are publicly accessible on the various RePEc services with few exceptions due to 
privacy and general relevance considerations. Namely, email addresses are not currently made 
public and rankings beyond the top ones stay private. In principle, one can scrape the various 
RePEc websites to obtain the desired information. This is not advisable, though, for two 
reasons. First, web scraping does not guarantee completeness. IDEAS, for example, has over 6 
million web pages, and a scraping script can easily get lost or overwhelmed. Second, web 
scraping can stress RePEc servers, especially with ill-configured scripts that run in loops across 
all the links. Therefore, the recommended approach to retrieve RePEc data is through Perl 
scripts provided by RePEc. The scripts allow users to mirror content from all ~2,400 publishers, 
as well as person and institution data. There are also portals that allow users to obtain all or part 
of the data through ftp, rsync, or OAI-PMH protocols. Finally, two APIs are available. One is 
dedicated to CitEc data, and the other spans all RePEc data and includes some massaging of raw 
data, such as enhanced paper version relationships, statistics, and particular subsets of data. APIs 
are not ideal for downloading the full corpus of data, though; they are designed to obtain many 
small snippets of data.  
 
4. RePEc metadata as a source for labor economists 
While RePEc is a bibliographic database, it has information that supports the study of 
economists within the profession more broadly. Indeed, each registered author has a publication 
history and a measure of the strength of that history as a performance metric. Often, the data 
include the economist’s employer, the type and strength of that employer, where the economist 
studied and the strength of that institution. In addition, RePEc has inferred the person’s gender 
from their full name with manual corrections for quality control. A major drawback of the 
RePEc data model is that RePEc does not support a complete affiliation history, only current 
affiliation(s) and graduated from institutions.  
Despite some limitations, the highly relational data means that one can study the 
characteristics of professionals with high human capital and potentially high geographic mobility. 
The data can indicate gender, subfields in which economists work, how they perform over time 
across many metrics, and with whom they choose to work, including the characteristics of those 
collaborators. Events can be dated: graduation year if reported in RePEc Genealogy; always a 
year of first publication, which can function as a proxy for age; the publication history; and some 
dates of death.  
While these data do not rise to the level of administrative data, as their collection is voluntary 
and relies on the goodwill of participants, it is quite a large and rich dataset for the scope of a 
highly specialized profession. For example, the 74,000 registered and published authors are a 
multiple of the 15,000 members of the American Economic Association, the largest professional 
society in economics. In many countries, the registered author count is high enough to obtain a 
statistically sufficient dataset. The same applies to many subfields of economics. Also, while 
other datasets that have been assembled to study economists focus on a few journals or authors 


within a narrow set of institutions, the RePEc dataset expands the scope worldwide, including 
the Global South. Of particular interest is the dating of working papers, which allows to date 
more precisely when research was performed compared with a publication date in a journal, 
which may be several years after the research was conducted. 
 
5. Examples of uses of RePEc metadata in labor economics 
Over a hundred studies have been conducted using RePEc data, either in part or wholly (a link 
to a maintained list of studies is at the end of the chapter). This section presents a few studies 
that are most relevant to a labor economist and that highlight the usefulness of RePEc data. 
Other common uses fall into bibliometrics, including various ways to rank journals and 
economists; studying the dissemination of research; and patterns of citations, for example. 
The ability to track economists’ publishing performance is of prime interest to labor 
economists. This can be measured by the RePEc rankings of the economists or in more detail by 
tracking their publication year by year with the associated citation measures for the article or 
impact factors of the outlets.  
One strand of studies tracks the careers of economists and looks at factors that can explain 
them. For example, Krapf et al. (2017) links a survey of economists to their RePEc author 
profiles and, thus, their publication timelines to tease out the impact of also being a parent of 
young children. They find that fatherhood has a positive impact on publication success and that 
mothers seem to outperform non-mothers after an initial penalty period, except for unmarried 
mothers and those having children before age 30.  
One can also study career choices. An early choice is that of the dissertation advisor. García-
Suaza et al. (2020) studies the impact of student-advisor matches and find that advisor choice 
matters little in top PhD programs unless they are co-authors. In other programs, the quality of 
the advisor matters much more. These results are obtained by leveraging RePEc profiles of 
authors in RePEc Genealogy, ranking data for authors and departments, as well as journal impact 
factors from RePEc.  
Another early choice is whether one should diversify one’s fields of research. Conventional 
wisdom is that one should concentrate on the field of the PhD field until tenure is obtained. 
Dellas et al. (2026) contradicts this by using measures of research field dispersion and publication 
success, both extracted from RePEc data. Early diversifiers show better scores throughout their 
careers, even when restricted to graduates from top programs (with information from the RePEc 
Genealogy). 
More generally, one can ask what it takes to be a successful professional and apply it to 
economists. Using data from EDIRC, RePEc author profiles, and institutional and author h-
indices, Rybacki and Serwa (2021) predict h-indices for central banks and central bankers. The 
conclusion is that central bankers are more successful if they work in well-connected, larger, 
Western central banks. Zacchia (2021) concentrates on women, using RePEc authors rankings 
and matching authors with their academic status. The conclusion is that women achieve less 
career promotion success compared to men after controlling for their ranking. 
Another aspect of academic labor that can be studied with RePEc data is the impact of an 
economist and how they are valued: what is the contribution of an individual author to a 
research field? Hsieh et al. (2020) uses RePEc data to create a co-authorship network from 


RePEc author profiles and run experiments by removing an author and looking at how the new 
network as whole produces research. This allows one to isolate how authors contribute to 
research by elevating others.  
The economics profession is also a social construct where belonging to specific networks 
helps in one’s career. Kleemans and Thornton (2021) looks at NBER membership using CVs for 
economists at R1 universities and RePEc and finds that publications in the top 5 journals matter 
more than an economist’s total publications. Connections with current NBER members, either 
the advisor or colleagues, have significant impact on one’s success. Tol (2022) studies the 
student-advisor network among economics Nobel Prize laureates using RePEc Genealogy 
(academic family tree) and other sources and finds the laureate network to be highly 
concentrated. 
There are many more studies using RePEc data in one way or another, and future labor 
economists will surely find innovative ways to continue exploiting this data. 
 
6. Conclusion 
RePEc has been collecting information about economics publications and the economics 
profession for about 30 years. The data can be informative not just to understand the publication 
landscape, but also how a profession functions: What drives performance, how do people 
respond to incentives, who do they choose to work with, what work strategies do they adopt. 
Economists are highly educated, are usually very mobile, have high standards, and are passionate 
about their work. RePEc data allow one to analyse not only the economics profession with these 
characteristics, but also other professions with these characteristics. 
RePEc has data about many facets of an economists work and work environment. The data 
are freely accessible and have already been used to answer some research questions. Labor 
economists are strongly encouraged to find more use for it and further contribute to their 
literature, which will duly be indexed in RePEc. 
 
7. Mentioned, active websites and web pages 
Works using RePEc data https://ideas.repec.org/k/repecdt.html  
How to obtain RePEc data https://ideas.repec.org/getdata.html  
arXiv https://arxiv.org/  
CitEc https://citec.repec.org/  
CollEc https://collec.repec.org/  
CrossRef https://www.crossref.org/  
Econlit https://aeaweb.org/econlit/  
EconPapers https://econpapers.repec.org/  
EconWPA https://econwpa.ub.uni-muenchen.de/  (archived) 
EDIRC https://edirc.repec.org/  
Google Scholar https://scholar.google.com/  
IDEAS https://ideas.repec.org/  


MyIDEAS https://ideas.repec.org/cgi-bin/myideas.cgi  
New Economics Papers (NEP) https://nep.repec.org/  
OpenCITE https://opencite.space/  
OpenAIRE https://www.openaire.eu/  
OpenAlex https://openalex.org/  
ORCID https://orcid.org/  
Proquest https://www.proquest.com/  
RePEc  http://repec.org/  
RePEc Author Service https://authors.repec.org/  
RePEc Genealogy https://genealogy.repec.org/  
Research Organization Registry (ROR) https://ror.org/  
 
8. References  
Conde-Ruiz JI, Díaz-Salazar M, Ganuza J-J, García M (2025) Citation gender gaps in top 
economics journals. SERIEs 16:659–697. https://doi.org/10.1007/s13209-025-00322-z 
Dellas H, García M, Garriga C, Zimmermann C (2026). Specialization vs. diversification: 
Research strategy and performance in economics. Working Paper, Federal Reserve Bank of St. 
Louis. 
Ellison G (2002) The Slowdown of the economics publishing process. Journal of Political 
Economy 110:947-993 
García-Suaza A, Otero J, Winkelmann R (2020) Predicting early career productivity of PhD 
economists: Does advisor-match matter? Scientometrics 122:429–449 
Gibson J, Anderson DL, Tressler J (2014) Which journal rankings best explain academic salaries? 
Evidence from the University of California. Economic Inquiry 52:1322–1340 
Hadavand A, Hamermesh DS, Wilson WW (2021) Publishing economics: How slow? Why slow? 
Is slow productive? Dixing slow? IZA Discussion Paper 
Kleemans M, Thornton RL (2021) Who belongs? The determinants of selective membership 
into the National Bureau of Economic Research. AEA Papers and Proceedings 111:117–122 
Koenig M, Hsieh C-S, Liu X, Zimmermann C (2020) Collaboration in bipartite networks, with 
an Application to coauthorship networks. CEPR Discussion Paper 
Krapf M, Ursprung HW, Zimmermann C (2017) Parenthood and productivity of highly skilled 
labor: Evidence from the groves of academe. Journal of Economic Behavior & Organization 
140:147–175 
Rybacki J, Serwa D (2021) What makes a successful scientist in a central bank? Evidence from 
the RePEc database. Central European Journal of Economic Modelling and Econometrics 
13:331–357 
Tol RSJ (2022) Rise of the Kniesians: the professor-student network of Nobel laureates in 
economics. The European Journal of the History of Economic Thought 29:680–703 
Zacchia G (2021) What does it take to be top women economists? An analysis using rankings in 
RePEc. Review of Political Economy 33:170–193 
